

--- SOURCE: Academic_Regulations_Final_03_09_2019.pdf ---

ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES
Rules & Regulations
(For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards)
​ ​
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1
1. INTRODUCTION
​ ​
Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop the
highest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledge
creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities,
social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would be
able to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such as
energy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientific
knowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness,
humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular and
extra-curricular activities on campus.
The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life long
process of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmes
focus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creative
inquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objective
mind.
The academic programmes are based on three tenets of (1) semester system, (2) Credit
System and (3) Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a duly
constituted Academic Committee (AC) through the office of Academics. The AC will be chaired
by Dean (Academics). In the absence of Dean (Academics), Associate Dean (Academics-
PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics).
The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a high
standard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Within
this broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes can
include additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. These
academic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriate
modifications/ improvements as and when necessary.
2. ACADEMIC SESSION
The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the
next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a
summer term as per the following timelines:
Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November
Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April
Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July.
Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is
at least 70.
2.1 Academic Calendar
The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic
Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping
of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation,
declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the
Senate.
2
3. REGISTRATION
a. Registration: Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme,
​
on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of
registration, she/he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late
registration.
b. Provisional Registration: A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final
​
results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a
certificate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination
of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the
qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be
regularized.
c. Late Registration: If the student does not register by the date of late registration as
​
mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he/she will be deregistered. The appeal against
deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate
may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine.
d. Adding and Dropping of Courses: A student may add or drop course(s) with approval of
the Faculty advisor till the last date of registration.
e. Withdrawing from a Course: After the last date of add-drop, a student will have the
option of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically within
four weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. The
withdrawn course will be mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘W’.
f. Cancellation of Semester Registration: Absence for a period of four or more weeks
during a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from all
the courses in that semester.
g. Summer course registration: A department may offer summer courses to enable the
​
students to clear their backlog courses and/or regular credit courses. A course will run during
summer provided a faculty member(s) is available for running the course. The course is offered
on approval of the Dean.
4. TEACHING AND EVALUATION
4.1 Teaching
4.1.1 Medium of Instruction
​
The medium of instruction is English.
4.1.2 Course Structure
All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course are based on the number of contact
hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course
with a passing grade will earn an equivalent number of credits. Based on the required academic
maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can
consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components
are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all
parameters related to course numbering scheme.
3
Table 4.1 Course Code Description
​
Course Code M E L 1 X X 1
Descriptions Offering Course Level of Unique Indicates Fractal
Department/IDRP Type Courses Identification
Number
Categories See Table 4.2 See See Table This code will be 0: Regular
Table 4.4 given centrally 1: Fractal 1
4.3 by the office of 2: Fractal 2
academics 3: Fractal 3
Note: Examples of course codes
​
Course Title L-T-P Course
Code
Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0
Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0
Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1
Fractal Course
Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming 1-0-0 MEL7XX2
Fractal 3: Robot Control 1-0-0 MEL7XX3
Table 4.2 Departmental Code
​
S. N. Type Department/Platform/Office
Department
1 ME Mechanical Engineering
2 CS Computer Science and Engineering
3 EE Electrical Engineering
4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
5 CH Chemical Engineering
6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering
7 MT Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
8 CY Chemistry
9 MA Mathematics
10 PH Physics
11 HS Humanities and Social Science
Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs)
12 DH Digital Humanities
13 SS Space Science and Technology
14 IO Internet of Things and Applications
15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles (AUV)
16 QC Quantum Information and Computation
17 CG Cognitive Science
18 SH Smart Healthcare
Others
19 OA Office of Academics
20 OS Office of Students
4
Table 4.3 Types for Courses
​
S. Course Category
N. Type
1 L Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and
Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.)
2 P Practical / Practice-based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily
on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such
as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc.)
3 D Project-based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects)
4 N Non-graded core component
5 T Thesis
6 Q Seminar Courses
7 S Independent Study
8 R Engineering innovation
9 E Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded)
Table 4.4 Level of Courses, category and credit requirements
​
S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements
1 100 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=0)
2 200
3 300 B.Tech. (Cr>=38)
4 400 B.Tech. (Cr>=75)
5 500 Preparatory Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. M.Tech. (Cr=0)
​
Programmes (NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. + M. Sc. (Cr=0)
M.Tech. Dual Degree)
6 600 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=75)
M.Sc. (Cr>=0)
M.Tech. (Cr >= 0)
7 700 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=100)
Advanced courses for M.Sc. M.Sc. (Cr >=30)
M.Tech. (Cr>=0)
Ph.D. (Cr>=0)
8 800 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. M.Tech. (Cr>=14)
programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 Ph.D. (Cr>=0)
level course as a pre-requisite
4.1.3 Approval of Courses
The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved
courses may be offered during any semester/summer term.
4.1.4 List of Courses
The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester,
by the Department hosting that Program.
4.1.5 Categories of Courses
Courses offered can be from one of the following categories:
a) Regular course:
A regular course has 14 hours of classroom engagement per one credit. A regular course can be
under elective or core/compulsory categories.
5
Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students
registers for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5
registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study
course as per the following section.
b) Self-study Course
A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a
self-study course are as follows:
● A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course
provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student
is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority.
● A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in
self-study mode provided he/she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being
offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during
the course with prior approval of the competent authority.
● Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a
Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of a self-study course to a
student is made by the Dean (Academics).
● Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory,
design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the
course.
● The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the
award of letter grade at the end of the semester.
● A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript.
● Not exceeding 10% of the total graded credit can be opted as a self-study course.
c) Independent Study Course
Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interest
under the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involving
an Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a sense
of own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. A
student having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with the
recommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study course
are as follows:
● A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-study
course not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program.
Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of the
program and will appear with the title “Independent Study” on the transcript.
● Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriate
recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of an
independent-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics).
● Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course but
laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral
part of the course.
● The course will be arranged, planned and managed by a supervising professor. The
Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award
of letter grade at the end of the semester.
4.1.6 Conduct of Courses
Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors,
as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance
6
of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per
Subsection 5.2.
The student shall have access to his/her answer paper(s) of all the written examinations
conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him/her by the Instructor(s) concerned.
The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months.
A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either (i) direct
contact (ii) synchronized remote contact (iii) guided study mode or combination of these. In
direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with
the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and/or the students
to be concurrently connected to the classroom interaction via electronic conferencing involving
both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between
faculty and students for limited hours (typically 25%) of the stipulated contact hours. In guided
study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up the study of an
approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be
also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the
Senate, under the supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to
courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under
direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring the use
of the specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact.
4.1.7 Teaching Assignments
The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the
Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are
also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in
consultation with the Head of that Department.
4.1.8 Auditing of Courses
A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the
permission of Dean (Academics) on the recommendations of Instructor of the course being
audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade
Card of the student.
4.1.9 Attendance Requirements
A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence
for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The
attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the
student’s attendance falls below 75%, the student will be allowed to appear for the exams.
Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75% will be required to score at least C grade
to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the
cut-off for C grade in a course.
4.2 Evaluation
​ ​
The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the
classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-papers
and projects.
The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous
basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each
subject in each semester.
7
● Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of
a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes
duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses (less than 3 credits)
must have at least one examination.
● The total weightage of examination component (three examinations for a 14 week-long
course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure.
● Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.
● The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom,
quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects.
5. GRADING SYSTEM
​ ​
5.1 Letter Grades
At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the
Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester
with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten
regular letter grades, namely A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each
course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in
Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand
for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty
member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule.
Table 5.1 Letter grade and its equivalent grade points
​
S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment
1 A* 10 Exceptional
2 A 10 Outstanding
3 A- 9 Excellent
4 B 8 Very Good
5 B- 7 Good
6 C 6 Average
7 C- 5 Below Average
8 D 4 Marginal
9 E 2 Poor
10 F 0 Fail
11 I Incomplete
12 S Satisfactory in Course
13 X Thesis Continuation
14 U Unsatisfactory
15 W Withdrawn
A detailed description of some of the grades is given below:
S.N. Grades Description
‘A*’ grade has the same grade point as ‘A’ grade. The grade ‘A*’ indicates
exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course/(s) in which the
1 A* number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 % of the
total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade ‘A*’ is not
awarded for projects /seminars.
8
2 E ‘E’ Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the
cutoff marks for ‘D’ Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute.
Students who obtain an ‘E’ Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional
examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the
‘E’ grade converted to a ‘D’ Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have ‘E’
Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional
examination for an ‘E’ Grade. The additional examination will be conducted
within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination
of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for
all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course
coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional
tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any
reason(s), he/she will not get any additional chance. If a student with ‘E’ grade
in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an
‘F’ grade in the course, he/she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In
case the course is elective, the student may take the same course again or any
other course. ‘E’ and ‘F’ Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA;
however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA.
3 I An ‘I’ grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his/her request to denote
incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An ‘I’ grade is
awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical
grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for ‘I’ grade should be made
at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation
requirements for such students in the corresponding course(s) should be
completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon
completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’ grade is converted to a regular
grade.
4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded
and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the
unsatisfactory (U) grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course
are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA.
5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for
continuation
6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis,
audit or non-graded courses.
7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course.
Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics
Calendar.
5.2 Procedure for declaration of results
The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and timeline would be as
per Academic Calendar.
1. Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:
2. Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.
3. Finalization of grades by instructors
4. Grade moderation by department/institute level committee for department/institute-wide
courses
9
5. Recommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a
moderation committee
6. Display of grades by Instructors
7. Grade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head
of the department
8. Approval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG)
9. Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG)
10. Approval of results by the Chairman Senate
11. Results once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional
cases, the student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal
justification.
5.3 Grade Point Averages
5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average
​ ​
The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of the grades earned by a
student in all the courses credited by her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the
respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student
in N courses registered during a semester are G , G , … G , and the corresponding credits C ,
​1 ​2 ​N ​1
​ ​ ​ ​
C , … C , then the SGPA is given by the following formula:
​2 ​N
​ ​
The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and
courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester.
5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average
The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall academic performance of a
student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is
computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is
calculated on the basis of all pass grades (A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D), except audit courses and
courses in which S/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters.
The SGPA and CGPA calculation are based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone.
6. GRADE CARD AND TRANSCRIPT
A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at
the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses,
credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades)
earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable.
7. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS IN SPECIAL CASES
The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those
related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by
the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All
such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate.
10
8. MAKE-UP EXAMINATIONS
A student who has missed minor(s) or the major examination due to genuine reasons like
illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The
student should make an application to the Dean (Academics) through the course instructor
within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their
absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take
a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a
hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of
the following categories:
● Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the
Medical Officer of the Institute that he/she was admitted to the Hospital during the
period of the missed quiz/exam.
● Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are
required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital
before they proceed for such consultation.
● Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are
required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer
of the Institute Hospital.
● A student staying outside the Campus permanently / temporarily must produce a
medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly
endorsed by the parent/guardian.
A slot-wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup / supplementary
week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take
the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be
given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness
resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in
consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up
examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no
circumstances, prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance.
11
12
A. REGULATIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
13
9. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) programs, and capability linked
opportunities for undergraduate students to complete Minor/Interdisciplinary Area
Specializations or Department Area Specialization. A student can also opt for M.Tech.(dual
degree) in Departmental Area or Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in
Entrepreneurship or Department Area Specialization in Engineering innovation.
10. UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS
10.1 B.Tech. Programmes
10.1.1 General Admissions
Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level
Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for
admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year.
10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes
Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship
Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations
(ICCR), New Delhi. Persons interested in these programs are required to apply through the
Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries.
10.1.3 Change/Enhancement of Program
A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through
branch change. A student can enhance his/her programme to a Minor/Interdisciplinary Area
Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Major/Department Area
Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in
Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in
Engineering innovation (through Industrial Translation). The rules governing these changes are
given in Section 18 (branch change) and Section 11.2 (for all others).
10.2 Reservation Policy
The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed.
10.3 Student Exchange Program
Student Exchange Program provides for a one/two-semester visit by students between the two
academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student
enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to
full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as
per the pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU) between the institutions.
Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the
preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework/research at the
Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework/research to the enrolled degree
program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or
may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU).
Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution
in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of
the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU.
14
On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her/his program
requirements which s/he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the
visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must
submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at the visited academic
institution as an exchange student and other documents/material that the concerned DUGC may
require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the
equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her/his
programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence
committee for its approval. Moreover,
● The credits/grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in
which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of
his/her transcripts.
● IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT
Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic
institutions in a particular semester.
● The CGPA calculation based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be
considered for award of prizes.
● The credits earned at the visited academic institutions will be taken into account for the
calculation of minimum required credits for the award of the degree.
10.4 Visiting Students
A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or
university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to
complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting
student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other
academic facilities.
A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean
(Academics). A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting
student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and
nationality.
Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to
regular students of the Institute.
10.5 Cancellation of Admission
Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark
sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the
last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to
cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the
specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s). Also, the Senate reserves the right to
cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false
information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission.
10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements
Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the
laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally
approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes.
15
11. CURRICULUM AND ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS
11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG
Programmes
The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures,
tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated
with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an
average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the
course.
Table 11.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment.
​
Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond Total
contact Hours# Credits
​
Contact Beyond Total (TC=TH/3)
Hours Contact Hours
(CH) Hours (BCH) (TH)
1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1
1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1
1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5
1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
etc.
11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students
A B.Tech. student can opt for one of the following capabilities Linked Opportunities
1) Major/Department Specialization
2) Interdisciplinary Specialization
3) Minor
4) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree
11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting
(a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization
A student should have earned a minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0
at the end on 6th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity.
​
​
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization
Students who have already opted for Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary
Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have
earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester.
11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements
(a) Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor
A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major/Department Specialization or
Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a
part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the
form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree.
Registration for Additional Courses for Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary
Specialization and Minor
16
Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or
equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which
forms part of her/his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the
prescribed courses for their degree.
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization
A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary
area offered. It will include credits earned for Major/Department or Minor/ Interdisciplinary area
Specialization excluding the project credits.
11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various
programmes
Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table
below:
Table 11.2 Course Categories and Academic requirements
​
S.N Course Type Course Category B.Tech. B.Tech. Dual
. Regular with Degree
Specialization
1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34 34 34
Science (IS) 16 16 16
Humanities (IH) 12 12 12
2 Programme Linked (L) Science (LS) 7 7 7
3 Programme Core (P) Programme 50 50 50
Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives 18 18 18
(PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP) 3 3 3
4 Open (O) Electives (OE) 10 0 0
5 Specialization Compulsory (SC) 0 8 8
(Major/Minor/Department/ Elective (SE) 0 12 12#
Interdisciplinary) (S)
6 M.Tech. (M) in Minor, Compulsory (MC) 0 0 9
Department, or Electives (ME) 0 0 5
Interdisciplinary Area Project (MP) 0 0 16
Open Electives (MO) 0 0 6
Total Graded 150 160 196
7 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6 6 6
Engineering (NE) 3 3 3
Design/Practical 6 6 6
Experience (ND)
Total Graded+Non Graded 165 175 211
# Must not include any project course
11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program
The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters.
11.5 Academic Performance Requirements
The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the
end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table:
17
Table 11.3 Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester
​
Description Minimum number of credits to be earned
GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS SC/ST/PD
Minimum for Continuation 18 14
If a student does not meet the criteria specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the
programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once.
Dean (UG/PG) should propose a guideline for mentoring the student under probation. Dean of
Students should also involve in the process.
If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned
and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation
requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript.
11.5.1 Criteria to put a student on Academic Probation:
​
● From the third semester onward if a student fails to earn a minimum of 12 credits in
any registered semester, then he/she will be placed on academic probation.
● A student placed on probation shall be monitored, including mandatory attendance in
classes, special tutorials and mentoring. Mentoring would comprise structured guidance
under a senior student.
● If a student is on academic probation for two consecutive registered semesters, then
his/her registration will be terminated.
● If a student earns less than or equal to 15 credits in any registered semester a warning
shall be given to him/her and intimation be sent to the parents.
● The two semesters allowed for the academic probation should be counted towards the
total duration allowed for the program.
11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes
The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/
teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only
those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for
this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months
beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is
registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be
required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For
continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5.
A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the
14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer
vacations.
12. UG REGISTRATION
12.1 Summer Courses
Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment
of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only
academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the
curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students
18
who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register
during this period.
For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration.
In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the
requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for
these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance.
The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular
semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading
patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters.
12.2 Limits on Registration
● An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.
● The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.
● An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits
per semester for independent-study or self-study course
12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load
Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation)
may register for a maximum of 16 credits.
Over-load: Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation
​
and satisfy one of the following criteria:
● Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to
complete all the requirements of their programme.
● Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed
to overload.
12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M.
Tech. dual degree Programme
A B.Tech. student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end
of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch
to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the
eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the
institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such
changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate.
13. EVALUATION OF SPECIAL UG ONLY COURSES
13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation
● DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.
● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.
● DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students.
19
13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC)
● The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The
Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the
convenor.
13.2 Engineering Innovation
● At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a report
which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.
● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/
Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded.
● Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of
the class.
13.3 Design Project Evaluation
● At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be
evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.
● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project
and S or U grade is awarded.
● Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of
the class.
13.4 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project
● Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the
students and supervisor(s).
● The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth
semester.
● Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular
supervisor(s).
● The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25.
13.5 Entrepreneurship Project
● At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be
evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by Dean (Academics-UG)/Associate Dean
(Academics-UG).
● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the
Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded.
14. TERMINATION
14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program
A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student
(a) Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR
(b) Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR
(c) Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee
constituted for the purpose; OR
(d) Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of
the program; OR
(e) Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters.
20
14.2 Appeal against Termination
A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for
reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor
academic performance and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall
take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain
any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice.
15. LEAVE RULES
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted
with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior
approval of the DUGC.
15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation
Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in
the Academic Calendar.
15.2 Short Leave
A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on
medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason.
15.3 Semester Withdrawal
It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period
of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester.
DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for
records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the
Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards
the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student.
15.4 Academic Leave
To help students broaden their horizons and gain course/work experience, she/he may be
permitted to proceed to other academic institutes/ Industry/ R&D organization in India or
abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as
(a) Fieldwork
(b) Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ
(c) Entrepreneurship initiative
(d) Engineering innovation
(e) Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in
India or abroad
(f) Internship work
All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.
A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two
semesters on academic leave.
A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by
the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee.
16. BRANCH CHANGE
(a) An undergraduate student is eligible to apply for branch change at the end of the second
semester only, provided the student satisfies the following criteria:
21
1. Secured a CGPA, at the end of the second semester, of:
i. Greater than or equal to 7.0 for SC/ST and PD applicants
ii. Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants
2. Completed all prescribed course credits for the first two semesters (including the
non-graded courses).
3. No backlog at the end of the second semester.
(b) The student should have no disciplinary action against him/her.
(c) Change of the branch will be permitted strictly in the order of merit as determined by
CGPA at the end of the second semester. Each available seat may be occupied by
students of any category. For students of SC/ST/PD category, concession in eligibility
criteria is given as per rule (a).
(d) In case more than one student applying for branch change have the same CGPA, the tie
shall be resolved on the basis of JEE ranks of such applicants.
(e) In making a change of branch, the strength of a branch should not fall below 85% of
​
the sanctioned strength and should not go above 115% of the sanctioned strength.
​ ​
(f) The conditions mentioned in item (a) above will not be insisted upon for change to a
branch in which a vacancy exists with reference to the sanctioned strengths, and the
concerned student was eligible as per JEE Rank for admission to that branch at the time
of entry to IIT Jodhpur.
(g) Notwithstanding any of the conditions listed above, a student with CGPA of 9 or more at
​
the end of the second semester will be allowed to move to a branch of his/her choice.
17. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the
conditions laid down in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4.
17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence
Minimum Duration of Residence is given in the table below:
Table 17.1 Minimum residential requirement
​
S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence
(in semesters)
1. B. Tech. (including 6
minor/department/interdisciplinary area
specialization)
2. B. Tech. – M.Tech. 8
17.2 Academic
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned
the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees.
​
17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues
The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics).
17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.
22
17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO
The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports,
National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period
of at least two semesters during their B.Tech. Program.
17.6 Award of Degrees
17.6.1 Provisional Certificate
A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can
be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of
Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or
Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable.
17.6.2 Degree Certificate
A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is
recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate
degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its
approval. The certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary
Specialization wherever applicable.
18. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the
right to modify/amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules
pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs.
23
B. REGULATIONS FOR POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
24
19. POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate
programmes.
1. Master of Science (M.Sc.)
2. Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech.
3. Master of Technology (M.Tech.)
4. Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD.
5. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
20. POSTGRADUATE ADMISSIONS
The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway
during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition,
the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis
and admit students as per the existing procedure.
20.1 Categories of Admission
A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories
i. Full-time regular
ii. Full-time sponsored
iii. Part-time
iv. External
v. Executive
However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be
offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program).
i) Full-time Regular
In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student
supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student.
ii) Full-time Sponsored
In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate
is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two
years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience.
iii) Part-time
A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as
per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT
Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at
IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a
full-time regular student.
iv) External
A student working in an industry/R&D establishment/academic institution which is equipped
with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay
in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements.
v) Executive (only for M. Tech.)
A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in
1. An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR
2. Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years.
25
3. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote
contact mode and limited direct interaction
20.2 Eligibility for Admission
​ ​
(a)The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may
prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate.
(b)The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the
Senate from time to time.
(c) Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of
Governors.
20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular)
The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the
following two avenues.
(a)The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by
IITs.
(b)The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year
program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT
Jodhpur.
The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55%
for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA
of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding
proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC
category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
20.2.2 Admission to M Sc – M Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular)
The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be
through any one of the following two avenues.
(a)The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by
IITs.
(b)The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year
program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT
Jodhpur.
The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55%
for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA
of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding
proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC
category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program (Regular)
(a)The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4 year program) or
a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences
and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field
(b)A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as
specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for
SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when
the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST)
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
(c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD
circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the
written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
26
20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program (Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored)
​ ​
(a)The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or
a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and
Veterinary Science or in a related field.
(b)A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as
specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for
SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when
the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST)
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
(c) The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying
​
degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to
the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately
after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after
registration.
(d)The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular)
(a)The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or
a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and
Veterinary Science or in a related field
(b)A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as
specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for
SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when
the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST)
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
(c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD
circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the
written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular)
(a)Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other
academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee
of any organization in India or abroad.
(b)The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural
science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
OR
(c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree,
OR
(d)The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in
engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary
science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for
GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme
(QIP), Defence Personnel
The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval
of Chairman, Senate.
27
20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals
INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time
of applying for admission.
The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and
when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The
applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and
attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category.
Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate.
The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural
Relations (ICCR) will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for
admission to the programme. The department's recommendation will be sent to the
Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC.
20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time)
(a)Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other
academic program in India or abroad.
(b)The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural
science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
OR
(c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree,
OR
(d)The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in
engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary
science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for
GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
(e)The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying
​
degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to
the program.
(f) The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students
A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or
university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to
complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the
non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use
other academic facilities.
Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate
satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be
routed through the office of Dean R&D.
Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute.
20.4 Reservation Policy
The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed.
28
21 PG REGISTRATION
21.1 Limits on Registration
Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs:
● M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10
credits in a semester.
● M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per
Table 21.1.
Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the
Regular semester/Summer Term
M.Tech. student registered under Maximum Minimum
different categories Credits Credits
Regular Semester Executive (Accelerated) 24 10
Executive (Normal) 17 10
Executive (Slow-Paced) 12 3
Executive (Part Time) 12 3
Full-time (Regular/Sponsored) 17 10
External 20 10
Part-time 12 3
Summer Term Executive (Accelerated) 16 0
Executive (Normal) 9 0
Executive (Slow-Paced) 6 0
Full-time (Regular) 9 5
Full-time (Sponsored) 9 0
External 9 0
Part-time 6 0
● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/Direct Ph.D. (Joining after B.Tech.) - The maximum and
minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent
to that of an M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student.
● Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table
21.2.
Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student (Regular) can register for during
the Regular semester
Ph.D. student registered under different Maximum Credits Minimum Credits
categories
Full-time Regular 12 6
External 12 6
Part-Time 12 3
21.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA)
A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit
requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any
professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate
his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean(academic). The
candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA
status for a maximum of 6 semesters.
29
21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D.
dual degree Programme
A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of
the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the
end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth
semester with the approval of DRC, provided his/her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be
required to complete his/her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester.
All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All
such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate.
21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D.
Program
A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may
be allowed to change his/her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be
counted towards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements.
21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D.
Programme
A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time
Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must:
i) have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement;
ii) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC;
iii) produce a "No Objection" Certificate from his/her employer for carrying out the research
work.
21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program
● M.Sc. - 8 registered semester
​
● M.Tech. (Regular and Part-time/External/Executive) - 12 registered semesters
​
which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after
completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored
candidates.
● Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree (Regular and Part-time/External) - 14
registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive
(RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that
of sponsored candidates.
● Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC.
21.5 Course Registration
Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and
Table 4.4.
The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course
during her/his Masters or Bachelors program.
30
22 ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS
22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG
Programmes
The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures,
tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and
M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact
hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the
student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course.
Table 22.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc.
​
Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond Total
contact Hours# Credits
​
Contact Beyond Total (TC=TH/3)
Hours Contact Hours
(CH) Hours (BCH) (TH)
1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1
1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1
1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5
1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
etc.
Table 22.2 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech./Ph.D.
​
Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond Total
contact Hours# Credits
​
Contact Beyond Total (TC=TH/4)
Hours Contact Hours
(CH) Hours (BCH) (TH)
1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 1
1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 1
1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.5
1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 3 4 1
1 hour of Thesis 0-0-1 1 3 4 1
(Ph.D.)
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
etc.
22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes
1) Compulsory Course (MC)
2) Programme Elective (ME)
3) Open Elective (MO)
4) Project works (MP)
5) Non-graded (NG)
22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students
Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3.
31
Table 22.3 Programs/ Credits to be earned for MSc students
​
Programs Minimum Credits to be earned
MC ME MO MP Total
M.Sc. (Chemistry) 38 18 06 15 77
M.Sc. (Mathematics) 38 18 06 15 77
M.Sc. (Physics) 38 18 06 15 77
22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive
M.Tech.
Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table
22.4.
Table 22.4 Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students
​
Programs Minimum Credits to be earned
MC ME MO MP NG Total
M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 06 16 4 62
M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 06 16 4 62
M.Tech (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60
M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing 19 15 06 16 4 60
Engineering and Design)
M.Tech (Metallurgical and Materials 16 18 06 16 4 60
Engineering)
M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 06 16 4 62
M.Tech (Computer Science and 18 18 06 16 4 62
Engineering)
M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 06 16 4 61
M.Tech (Data and Computational 20 15 06 16 4 61
Sciences)
22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree
Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit
requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3
and 22.4.
22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree
Course categories and academic requirements for MTech - PhD dual degree students are given
below in Table 22.5.
Table 22.5 Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students
​
Programs Minimum Credits to be earned
MC ME MO MP NG Total
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 19 17 06 16 4 62
(Sensors and Internet of Things)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Cyber 18 18 06 16 4 62
Physical System)
32
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 17 17 06 16 4 60
(Communication and Signal
Processing)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 17 17 06 16 4 60
(Thermofluids Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 17 17 06 16 4 60
(Manufacturing Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Design 17 17 06 16 4 60
Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 16 18 06 16 4 60
(Metallurgical and Materials
Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 18 18 06 16 4 62
(Computer Science and
Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 18 18 06 16 4 62
(Artificial Intelligence)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree 18 17 06 16 4 61
(Bioscience and Bioengineering)
The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during
Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses
22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students
The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6.
Table 22.6 Credit Requirements for PhD students
​
S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Minimum
Credits Credits
through through Thesis
Course Work
Work
1. Engineering M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) 12 48
discipline/ in an Engineering discipline
IDRPs M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) 30 48
in an Engineering discipline
2. Science, M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a 12 48
Humanities or Science, Humanities or Social
Social Science Science discipline
discipline
22.8 Academic Performance Requirements
22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program
The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below
Table 22.7.
33
Table 22.7 Minimum CGPA requirements
​
Sr. Program Continuation in For graduation
No. Programme
1 M.Sc. (only graduation Refer 22.8.2 5.0
requirement)
2 M.Tech. 5.0 5.0
3 Dual Degree (M.Sc. and 5.0 5.0
M.Tech.)
4 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and 7.0 7.0
Ph.D.)
5 Ph.D. 7.0 7.5 at the completion of
course work
22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc.
M.Sc.- The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for
​
continuation in the program.
22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship
The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship is given in below
Table 22.8
Table 22.8 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/
​
Fellowship
Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/
Fellowship
1 M.Tech. 6.5
2 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7.0
3 Ph.D. 7.0
23. LEAVE RULES
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with
a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval
of the DRC.
23.1 Leave
A maximum of 30 days in an academic year (including leave on medical grounds + mid
semester break). The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer/winter
term or mid-semester break.
A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch
An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch
The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC
without assistantship during that period.
23.2 Other Leaves
Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be
counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme.
Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD.
34
23.3 Semester Withdrawal
May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of
four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester.
In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued
for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of
Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a
semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on
the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the
programme for the student.
23.4 Academic Leave
Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as
1. Fieldwork
2. Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library
3. Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ
4. Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium
5. Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision
6. Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as
indicated in his research proposal
7. Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or
abroad
All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted.
SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during
academic leave.
● A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave.
● A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as
certified by SRC and approved by DRC.
24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted
under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following:
24.1 M.Sc. Program
Merit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms.
24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program
A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of
the second year with
(a)CGPA>=8
OR
(b)have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund.
24.3 M.Tech. Program
A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A
student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.
35
24.4 Executive M Tech Program
Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the
Institute.
24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program
Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with
regular Ph.D. students.
24.6 Ph.D. Program
A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per
the norms of IIT Jodhpur.
(a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master's degree with
GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD
norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science departments.
(b)The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent
post-bachelor's degree
(c) A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.
A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided
the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the
date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing
the qualifier requirement.
The Teaching/Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of
the Thesis.
25. RULES AND REGULATION FOR CONDUCT AND
EVALUATION OF M. TECH./M.SC. PROJECT
● Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the
students and supervisor(s).
● The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first
semester.
● Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular
supervisor(s).
● Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee
consisting of DRC, supervisor(s) and two members conversant with the field of research
with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also).
DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee
may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.
● A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer
semester following 2nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech
​
project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be
evaluated by his supervisor.
36
26 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PH. D. /M. TECH.-PH. D.
DUAL DEGREE PROGRAM
26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s)
26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates
The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research.
There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of
the candidate at the time of selection.
26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s)
● Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be
assigned at the time of selection.
● Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of the
students and supervisor(s).
● For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. - Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identification
must be completed by the end of the first semester
● The Convener, DRC (Department Research Committee)/Coordinator (Interdisciplinary
Research Program) would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s).
● There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional
supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate.
● A supervisor from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the
​ ​
request of student/supervisor(s) with the recommendation of the DRC/IRC and the Dean
(Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate.
● The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and
Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial
point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor.
26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor
● Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the
DRC/IRC (Interdisciplinary Research Committee) shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in
consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative
requirements.
● Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an
additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor.
● The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the
supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor.
● The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and
will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier
before the supervisor’s retirement/resignation.
26.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee (DRC)
​ ​ ​
The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs
of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor/Associate Professor proposed
by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor/Associate Professor nominated by Head of
the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The
DRC has to be approved by Dean (Academics). Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor
of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years.
37
26.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC)
​
The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the
chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a
member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure
for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics).
26.2 Change of Research Supervisor
Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean
(Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the
student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required,
realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC.
26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC)
26.3.1 Composition of SRC
● The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members
conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the
department (maybe outside the Institute also).
● A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the
supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics).
● The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and
the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean
(Academics).
● The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester.
● Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the
DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record.
● Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the
thesis.
● The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the
completion of the program.
26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM)
The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the
SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii)
A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based
upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of
registration.
For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for
conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students
and scheduling guidelines are suggested
1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the
year.
2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the
year.
The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements.
Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the
supervisor(s) through the SRC for record.
Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and
approved by Dean (academics)
38
26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student
​ ​
The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a
Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship.
1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1
2. Cleared comprehensive examination
3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research
4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal
The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements
before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and
in any case not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in
​
the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before
the beginning of the seventh semester.
26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student
● The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the
student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the
field of research.
● The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination
Committee of the Department/IDRP.
● The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers.
● Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination.
Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The
course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the
Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same
as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the
knowledge in that area.
● The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular
student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments.
● The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student
within two weeks of SRC formation.
​ ​
● All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can
coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may
decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days.
● A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed
the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement.
● If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the
first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear
within six months of the first attempt.
● For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in
all papers.
Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students:
● Ph.D. : within 3 semesters
● Direct Ph.D. and MTech - PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters
26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA)
Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State
of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the
39
area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory
grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal.
26.5.3 Research Proposal
Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion
of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to
research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the
candidate.
26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree
A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D.
degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such
students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis.
26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program
● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier
requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also
convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all
conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied.
● The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if
SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of
registration.
26.8 Cancellation of Registration
● The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC
or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation.
● The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the
maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation.
26.9 Synopsis
● Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door
assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC.
● The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and
quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis.
● Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis
report.
● Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar
​
date. If required, an extension of three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics)
​
on the recommendation of SRC.
● If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be
asked to present the synopsis again.
● On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in
4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis,
the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in
the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for
consideration of the SRC.
40
● The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication
in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the
quality of journals/conference).
26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation
The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty
Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in
which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines
should be followed
● The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience;
● No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and
● The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute.
● Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners.
​
● The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of
​
which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these
examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, SRC and
​
Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis.
● The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the
external examiner.
● One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense.
● The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months
from the date of receipt of the Thesis.
● If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean
(Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.
● If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean
(Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration.
The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special
circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D.
program.
● If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be
awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the
Ph.D. program.
● If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis
after the revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with the
​ ​
Supervisor(s).
● When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the
Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the
suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the
Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis.
● The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within
India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and
an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the
student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their
recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award
of Ph.D. degree to the student.
27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the
requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below.
41
27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement
Table 27.1 Minimum residential requirement
​
S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Minimum Duration
Program (in semesters) of
Residence
1. M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4
2. M.Sc.-M.Tech. All qualifying degrees 7
Dual Degree
3. M.Tech. Programs
Full-time All qualifying degrees 3
Regular
/Sponsored
Part-time All qualifying degrees 0
Executive All qualifying degrees 1
4. Ph. D. Programs
Full-time Regular
Engineering M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an 2
discipline Engineering discipline
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an 5
Engineering discipline
Science, M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, 2
Humanities or Humanities or Social Science discipline
Social Science
discipline
Part-time All qualifying degrees 0
External All qualifying degrees 1
27.2 Academic
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned
the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for
M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for
Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09.
27.3 No Dues Clearance
Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics)
27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.
42
27.5 Award of Degrees
27.5.1 Provisional Certificate
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can
be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of
Chairman, Senate.
27.5.2 Degree Certificate
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is
recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate
degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its
approval.
28. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the
right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes
at IIT-Jodhpur.
43


--- SOURCE: curriculum.pdf ---

1. Introduction
This BTech program combines two broad areas, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, while building a strong
foundation in Computer Science. Artificial Intelligence (AI) aims to create machines to act with higher levels of
intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. On the other hand, Data Science
(DS) is the art of generating insight, knowledge and predictions by processing data pertaining to a system or a
process. AI and Data Science can feed into each other as evolutionary systems that can continuously learn from
data and thereby emulate humans better. As the demand for these areas increases, there is also an increasing
need for building the future workforce for Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. IIT Jodhpur will offer this
unique program to develop the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science ecosystem in the country. The curriculum
includes courses in computer science, mathematics, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and their
applications in various domains. The curriculum also provides opportunities to the students to explore
specialization areas including visual computing, socio-digital realities, robotics, and AIOT. The program also
allows the students to venture into Management specialization with AI and Technology focus, leading to MBA
(BTech + MBA dual degree program), as well as entrepreneurial activities. The program also enables the students
to build strong industry linkages in terms of practical training program, summer internships, and co-supervision
on projects.
2. Objectives of the program
1. BTech in AIDE will offer students with in-depth knowledge of fundamental concepts, as well as application-
oriented technologies in the broad areas of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
2. A student completing this program will be capable of undertaking careers in industry as well as academia.
Interested students may also follow entrepreneurial endeavors in AIDE areas.
3. He/She will have the option to explore a variety of domains including governance, finance, security,
transportation, healthcare, energy management, agriculture/food processing, population studies, legal
systems, content creation and management systems, weather prediction, economics, predictive maintenance,
smart manufacturing, education, human and robot interaction/intelligent automation, smart city, drug
discovery, and aid for differently abled/accessibility technology.
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this program, a student will develop an ability to:
1. Comprehend fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of the state-of-the-art AIDE methodologies.
2. Skill set to clean, process, analyze, manage and handle security and privacy aspects of structured and
unstructured data.
3. Ability to identify, design and apply appropriate pattern recognition and data mining methods for generating
relevant insight from data.
4. Design and build real-world AIDE systems, solving application-specific problems, and to reason about them.
5. Conceive, design and develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces.
6. Design, develop, and deploy machine learning based applications using structured and unstructured data
(e.g., speech, text, images/videos).
7. Capability to follow a unique interdisciplinary approach for solving problems, using knowledge of
mathematics, statistics, computing and one or more selected domains among physics, chemistry, biology,
engineering sciences, and management.
8. Understand and assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AIDE based systems and their
impact on societal and environmental context.
9. Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments.
10. Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
11. Plan and manage technical projects.
4. Learning Outcomes
The student will have an ability to
1. Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals along with artificial intelligence
and machine learning knowledge, and an engineering specialization to develop solutions to real-world
problems.
2. Apply appropriate theories, design principles, frameworks, and protocols to develop AI & DS based system
prototypes.
1
3. Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of modern simulation, and AI & DS programming tools with an
understanding of the limitations.
4. Apply to reason informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural
issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
5. Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary
settings.
6. Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities by comprehending and writing effective reports
and design documentation, making effective presentations and exchanging clear instructions.
7. Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world problems.
8. Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long
learning in the broadest context of technological change.
5. New skill sets targeted
1. AIDE algorithms for transforming large data into actionable decision
2. Building end to end systems for enhancing human capabilities using vision, language, and text processing
3. Foundations in ML Optimization
4. Ethical, Safe, and Dependable AI/ML Systems
5. Familiarity with emerging and futuristic AIDE techniques
6. Entrepreneurial capability
7. Written and oral communication
2
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
Map topics with courses in the table given below:
Table 1. Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
Area Topics Category Course (IE/IS/PC/PE)
(Core/
Techniques
Technology/
Systems)
Abstract Data Types, Linear Data Structures, Non Core Data Structures and
AI and ML Linear Data Structures, Stack, Queue, Link List, Heap, Algorithms (PC)
Sorting, Hashing, Algorithm Analysis, Graph, Tree
Discrete Structures, Logics, Set, Graph and Trees, Core Maths for Computing (PC)
Deterministic Finite Automata, Non-deterministic
Finite Automata, PushDown Automata, Context Free
Grammar, Turing Machine, Lexical and Syntax
Analysis, Parsing
Hardware-Software interaction, Digital circuit design Core Principles of Computer
and analysis, Computer system design, Instruction set Systems - 1 (PC)
architecture, Language translation, Semantic analysis
Network-OS interaction, Process management, Core Principles of Computer
Storage management, Systems - 2 (PC)
Complexity Analysis, Divide-and-conquer, Greedy Core Design and Analysis of
Algorithms, Dynamic Programming, Linear Algorithms (PC)
Programming, Universal Hashing, Max-flow Min-cut,
Amortized Analysis, Traveling Salesman Problem,
Approximation Algorithms
Bayes Decision Theory, Regression, Bias variance, Core and Pattern Recognition and
Maximum Likelihood Estimation, Bayesian Parameter Technique Machine Learning (IE)
Estimation, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Artificial
Neural Network, Clustering, k-means, SVM, Feature
Selection, Dimensionality Reduction
Uninformed Search Strategies, Informed Search Technique Artificial Intelligence (PC)
Strategies, Local Search Algorithms, Hill Climbing,
Constraint Satisfaction Problems, Backtracking,
Adversarial Search, Min-Max algorithms, Propositional
Logic, Reasoning Patterns, First-order logic, Syntax,
Semantics, Q-value, Policy,
Neural Networks, Gradient Descent, Optimization, Technique Deep Learning (PC)
Regularization, Autoencoder, Convolutional Neural
Network, Recurrent Neural Network, LSTM, Deep
Generative Models, Generative Adversarial Network
(GAN), Deep Belief Network, Deep Convolutional
GAN, Variational Autoencoder, Representation
Learning, Unsupervised Pre-training, Transfer
Learning, Distributed Representation, Domain
Adaptation, Neural Language Model, Adversarial
Learning
Accuracy-explainabilitytradeoff, Interpretability Technique Dependable AI (PC)
problem, Predictability, Transparency, Traceability,
Causality, Reasoning, Attention and Saliency,
Interpretable AI, Prediction Consistency, Adversarial
Robustness, Trustworthy AI, Integrity, Reproducibility,
Accountability, Bias-free AI, Verified AI, Federated
Learning, Differential Privacy,
3
Convexity, Linear programming, Duality, Integer Core and Optimization for Machine
programming, Nonlinear programming, Lagrange Technique Learning (PC)
multipliers, First and second order conditions, Local
and global convergence, Gradient descent methods
Decision-making, Utility Theory, Utility Functions, Core Advanced AI (PE)
Decision Networks, Sequential Decision Problems,
Partially Observable MDP, Game Theory,
Reinforcement Learning, Generalization, Policy Search,
Hidden Markov Model, Kalman Filter, Knowledge
Representation, Ontological Engineering, Situation
Calculus, Semantic Networks, Description Logic,
Planning graphs, Partial-order Planning, Conditional
Planning, Continuous Planning, Multi-agent Planning,
Hierarchical Task Network Planning, Non-deterministic
Domains
Kernel Machines, Variants of Support Vector Machines, Core and Advanced Machine
PAC Theory, Boosting, Graphical Models, Structural Techniques Learning (PE)
Predictions, Deep Reinforcement Learning, Sparse
Coding
Computational complexity of AI models, Prediction Systems and Resource-constrained
accuracy, Numeric accuracy, Precision, Memory Technique Artificial Intelligence (PE)
footprints, Edge AI, Memory Optimization of Models,
Hardware accelerators for Edge AI, Vision Processing
Unit, Streaming Hybrid Architecture Vector Engine,
Open Neural Network Exchange
Search Engine Architecture, Retrieval Models, Technique Information Retrieval (PE)
Performance Evaluation, Text Categorization, Text
Clustering, Web Information Retrieval, Structured
Document Retrieval
Graph algorithms, Directed and Undirected graph, Core Graph Theoretic
Planner graph, Graph coloring, Hamiltonion and Algorithms (PE)
Eulorian graph, Bipartite graphs, Trees.
Streaming Algorithms, Stream mining using Clustering, Core and Stream Analytics (PE)
Massive Data Clustering, Data Stream Classification, Technique
Distributed Mining of Streaming Data, Change
Diagnosis, Forecasting on Stream, Dimensionality
Reduction for Streaming data.
HCI and User experience, Prototyping techniques and Technique Human-Machine
Social evaluation, Interface design and interaction, Speculative and Systems Interaction (PC)
Sensing design, Value sensitive design
Visual World, Geometry, Lights and Optics, Tracking, Technique Introduction to AR and
Motion, Depth, devices and tools VR (PE)
Graphs, Network Models, Network Data Generation, Technique Social Networks (PE)
Structural Properties, Link Prediction, Community
Detection, Information Cascade, Small World
Phenomenon, Homophily, Structural Balance,
Components, NetworkX, Gephi, Network Evolution,
Multi-layer network
Data and Representing data, Data science ecosystem, data Techniques Data Engineering (PC)
Distributed sources, data storage, data model, Structured data, and Systems
Sciences unstructured data, semi-structured data, Accessing
data, SQL, NoSQL databases, parallel data reads/writes
for high throughput, distributed database, Analysing
data, distributed data processing
Data Visualization, Data representation, feature Techniques Data Visualization (PC)
representations, encoded representations, Spatial data and Systems
representation, Time-series data representations,
4
visualization of multivariate data, geometry,
Information illustration, Maps and Graphics, Advanced
Visualization, Interactive graphics, infographics,
visualization of high dimensional data
Multivariate analysis, Sampling theory, Matrix Techniques Maths for Big Data (PC)
decomposition, Algorithms for big matrices, Data and Systems
intensive processing
Decision Computational Neuroscience Models: Descriptive, Computational
Sciences Mechanistic and Interpretive models, Synapse, Neural Neuroscience (PE)
and encoding, Neural decoding, Neuron models, Spikes,
Cognition Modeling connections between neurons, Synaptic
plasticity and learning, Unsupervised and supervised
learning from the perspective of neurons
Biological signals, Biomedical imaging modalities, Bio-imaging (PE)
Sectioning, Multimodal images, Reconstruction, Image
segmentation, Object delineation, Classification, Image
registration, Deep Learning for Bio-imaging, Tracking,
Interactive image analysis
Application Image digitization, Pixel relationships and distances, Technique Digital Image Processing
s Camera model and stereo imaging, Image transforms, (PE)
Image Enhancement: Spatial and Frequency domain,
Image Restoration, Image segmentation, Color image
processing, image morphology, Image compression and
coding, Image features
Spoken language technology, dialog and conversational Techniques Speech Understanding
systems, automatic speech recognition, speech (PE)
synthesis, affect detection, dialogue management.
Image formation and transformations, Camera Techniques Computer Vision (PE)
calibration, Image restoration, Spatial and Wavelet-
based processing, Epipolar Geometry, SfM, Optical
flow, Key-point detection, Feature description and
matching, Deep learning for vision, Applications
Geometric primitives, clipping, viewing, rendering, Technique Computer Graphics (PE)
animation, Shading, Coloring, OpenGL
Word representation, NLP tasks, Seq2Seq model, Applications Natural Language
Question Answering, Sentiment Analysis, Dialogue Understanding (PE)
system, Machine Translation, natural language
generation, Interpretability, Knowledge Graphs
Biometric system design, Genesis of biometrics, System Applications Advanced Biometrics (PE)
architecture, Performance evaluation, Biometric
modalities, Biometric security, Biometric devices,
Biomedical applications
Multi-dimensional signals, systems, transforms and Applications Video Processing (PE)
sampling; Camera models; Motion and shape
estimation; Video segmentation and tracking; Video
filtering, compression and restoring; Ego-centric, 360-
degree and Streaming video
5
7. Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 2. ProposedCourse Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. Programmes
S.N. Course Type Course Category Regular B.Tech. Double B.Tech.
Credit Total Credit Total
1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34 69 34 59
Science (IS) 16 16
Humanities (IH) 12 9
2 Programme Linked (L) Science (LS) 7 0
3 Programme Core (P) Programme Compulsory (PC) 51 71 47+3 71
Programme Electives (PE) 17 21-3
B.Tech. Project (PP) 3 3
4 Open (O) Open Electives (OE) 10 10 0 0
5 Engineering Science (E) Engineering Science Core (EC) 0 0 22 22
Engineering Science Elective (EE) 0 0 8,11 8
Total Graded 150 160
6 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6 15 6 15
Engineering (NE) 3 3
Design/Practical Experience (ND) 6 6
Total Graded + Non-Graded 165 175
6
8. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 4. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes (Up 6000 Level)
Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact hours Total Credits
Contact Hours Beyond Contact Total Hours (TC=TH/3)
(CH) Hours (BCH) (TH)
1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 hr 2 hr 3 hr 1
1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 hr 2 hr 3hr 1
1 hour of Lab/Project 0-0-1 1 hr 0.5 hr 1.5 hr 0.5
#Contact hour for projects refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
7
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 5. Programme Compulsory Courses
Sr. No Course Name LTP Contact Hours Credit
1 Data Structure and Algorithms 3-0-2 5 4
2 Maths for Computing 3-1-0 4 4
3 Principles of Computer Systems - 1 (Compilers and 2-0-2 4 3
CA)
4 Data Engineering 3-0-3 6 4.5
5 Human-Machine Interaction 0-0-4 4 2
6 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3-1-0 4 4
7 Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3 3
8 Optimization for ML 3-0-3 6 4.5
9 Principles of Computer Systems - 2 3-0-2 4 4
10 Data Visualization 3-0-3 6 4.5
11 Deep Learning 3-0-3 6 4.5
12 Dependable AI 3-0-0 3 3
13 DSAI Core Elective 1 (DS + X) 3-0-0 3 3
14 DSAI Core Elective 2 (AI + X) 3-0-0 3 3
15 Maths for Big Data* 2-1-0 3 3
Total 51
*For Core ES + AIDE program, under DS+X for regular program, Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulations in AI (0-0-
2) is a core course under Professional Ethics - II (Sem VI).
8
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 6. Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
S. No. Stream Courses L-T-P Credit
1 Advanced Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3
2 Advanced Machine Learning 3-0-0 3
3 Resource Constrained Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3
4 Scalable Machine Learning 3-0-0 3
AI and ML
5 Computational Learning Theory 3-0-0 3
6 Information Retrieval 3-0-0 3
7 Graph Theoretic Algorithms 3-0-0 3
8 Stream Analytics 3-0-0 3
9 Introduction to Robotics 3-0-0 3
10 Robotics and Planning and Decision Making of Robots 3-0-0 3
11 Automation Multi-Agent Systems 3-0-0 3
12 Autonomous Systems 3-0-0 3
13 Multimodal Interfaces 0-0-2 2
14 Introduction to Haptics 3-0-0 3
15 Socio-Digital Reality Introduction to AR and VR 3-0-0 3
16 Advanced Human-Machine Interaction 3-0-0 3
17 Social Networks 3-0-0 3
18 Computational Neuroscience 3-0-0 3
19 Science of Intelligence Connectomics 3-0-0 3
20 Bioimaging 3-0-0 3
21 Digital Image Processing 3-0-0 3
22 Computer Vision 3-0-0 3
23 Natural Language Understanding 3-0-0 3
24 Speech Understanding 3-0-0 3
25 Computational Linguistics 3-0-0 3
Applications
26 Advanced Biometrics 3-0-0 3
27 Computer Graphics 3-0-0 3
28 Video Processing 3-0-0 3
29 Animation 3-0-0 3
30 GPU Programming 3-0-0 3
31 Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems 3-0-0 3
32 Cyber Physical Systems, Embedded Systems Design 3-0-0 3
33 Sensors and Internet of Security in CPS 3-0-0 3
34 Things Edge and Fog Computing 3-0-0 3
35 Real Time Systems 3-0-0 3
36 Introduction to Space Science 3-0-0 3
37 Reliability Engineering and Life Testing 3-0-0 3
38 Introduction to Game Theory 3-0-0 3
Data and Discovery
39 Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos 3-0-0 3
Science
40 Differential Geometry 3-0-0 3
41 Introduction to Financial Engineering 3-0-0 3
42 Computational Chemistry 3-0-0 3
43 Special Topics in ML 3-0-0 3
44 Special Topics Special Topics: Advancements in Computer Vision 3-0-0 3
45 Special Topics in Data Science 3-0-0 3
9
11. Specialization to be offered by the department
Table 7a. Specialization and courses
S. Name of Specialization Core (8 Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
No. Specialization credits)
Digital Image Processing, Video Processing and
Analysis, Advanced Machine Learning,
Introduction to AR and VR, Scalable Machine
Learning, Computational Photography,
Computer Graphics (3-0-0),
Visual Computing Computational Imaging,Principles of Biological
Computer Vision (3-0-0),
1. (CS, AIDE, EE) Vision, Bioimaging, Medical Image Analysis,
Visual Computing Lab (0-0-
Visual Perception, Advancements in Computer
4)
Vision, Animation, Real-time Vision
Architecture, Image Synthesis, 3D Shape
Analysis, Image and Video Forensics, Selected
Topics in Computer Vision, Project (0-0-12)
Social Network (3-0-0), Introduction to Haptics, Design Process, Speech
Socio-Digital Reality Introduction to AR and VR Understanding, Computer Graphics, HCI, NLU,
2.
(CS, AIDE, EE) (3-0-0), Multimodal Computer Vision, Visual Perception, Image and
interface Lab (0-0-4) Video Forensics, Project (0-0-12)
Intelligent
3. Communications and Jointly with EE Jointly with EE
Networking
4. Robotics Jointly with RM-IDRP Jointly with RM-IDRP
5. AIOT Jointly with EE Jointly with EE
Algorithm for big data, computer vision,
machine learning with big data, edge and fog
computing, NLP, GPU Programming, Data
AI
AI (3-0-0), Deep Learning Visualization, Introduction to AR and VR,
6. (for non-AI, non-CS
(3-0-0), AI Lab (0-0-4) Dependable AI, Resource constrained AI,
Students)
Social Network Analysis, Optimization,
Computer Graphics, Advanced AI, Advanced
ML, Project (0-0-12)
*Science of Intelligence, Smart Healthcare, and Language Technologies Specializations will be added in the
future
Table 7b. AI+X courses.
S. No. Course Status
1. AI + Industry 4.0 Jointly with ME
2 Autonomous Systems IDRP
3. AI + Transportation CSE
Table 7c. DS+X (Applied Statistics) courses.
S. No. Course Status
1. Maths for Big Data CS+Math course
2. Statistical Inference and Simulation Techniques Maths course
3. Introduction to Financial Engineering Maths course
4. Time Series Analysis Math course
10
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. AIDE (Regular)
Table 8b. Curriculum of B.Tech. in AIDE
Cat Course LTP CH NC GC Cat Course LTP CH NC GC
I Semester II Semester
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IE Engineering 2-1-0 3 - 3
Electrical Mechanics
Engineering
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IS Chemistry 3-0-0 3 - 3
Computer
Science
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IS Physics 3-0-0 3 - 3
Bioengineering
IS Chemistry Lab 0-0-2 2 - 1
IS Physics Lab 0-0-2 2 - 1
IS Mathematics I 3-1-0 4 - 4 IS Mathematics II 3-1-0 4 - 4
IE Engineering 0-0-2 2 - 1 IE Engineering 0-0-2 1 - 1
Visualization Realization
NE Engineering 0-0-2 2 1 - NE Engineering 0-0-2 2 1 -
Design I Design II
NH Communication 0-0-2 2 1 - NH Communication 0-0-2 2 1 -
Skill I Skill II
NH Social Connect 0-0-1 1 0.5 - NH Social Connect 0-0-1 1 0.5 -
and and
responsibilities I responsibilities II
NH Performing Arts 0-0-1 1 0.5 - NH Performing Arts 0-0-1 1 0.5 -
I/ Sports I II/ Sports II
Total 12-1-14 27 3 17 Total 11-2-12 25 3 16
III Semester IV Semester
LS PSSP 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Materials Science 1 × 1 - 1
& Engineering 1-0-0
IE i-Energy 2X 1-0-0 2 - 2
(Electronic
materials
materials)
ii- Computational
Materials Design
PC Data Structures 3-0-2 5 - 4 IE Pattern 3-0-2 5 - 4
and Algorithms Recognition and
Machine Learning
PC Maths for 3-1-0 4 0 4 IE Thermodynamics 3-1-0 4 - 4
Computing
IE Signals and 3-1-0 4 - 4 PC HMI 0-0-4 4 - 2
Systems PCS-1 2-0-2 2 - 3
LS Quantum Info 3-0-0 3 - 3 PCS-2 3-0-2 4 - 4
Processing
NE Intro. To 0-0-2 2 1 IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 - 3
Profession
Total 17-3-4 24 1 21 Total 15-1-10 24 - 21
V Semester VI Semester
PC DA of 3-1-0 4 4 PC Data 3-0-3 6 4.5
Algorithms - Visualization -
Artificial 3-0-0 3 - 3 Deep Learning 3-0-3 6 - 4.5
Intelligence 3-0-3 6 - 4.5 AI+X / DS+ X 3-0-0 3 - 3
Optimization in Dependable AI 3-0-0 3 3
ML
Data Engineering
3-0-3 6 4.5
11
IH Humanities II 3-0-0 3 - 3 PE Programme/ 6-0-0 6 6
Open Elective
NH Professional 0-1-0 1 - NH Ethics, Policy, 0-0-2 1 -
Ethics I Law and
Regulations in AI
Total 15-2-6 22 1 19 Total 18-0-4 24 1 21
VII Semester VIII Semester
PP B. Tech. Project 0-0-6 6 - 3 IH Humanities IV 3-0-0 3 - 3
PCPEAI+X / DS+ X 3-0-0 3 - 3 PE/ Programme/ 15-0-0 15 - 15
/ Programme/ 6-0-0 6 6 OE Open Electives
OE Open Electives
IH Humanities III 3-0-0 3 - 3
IS Environmental 2-0-0 2 - 2
Sci
Total 14-0-6 21 - 17 Total 18-0-0 18 - 18
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit 9 150
Non-Graded Design Credits 6 -
Grand Total 165
12
13. Curriculum of Double B.Tech. : B.Tech. AIDE Engineering and Engineering Science
Table 9. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
Cat Course LTP CH N GC Cat Course LTP CH NC GC
C
I Semester II Semester
First two semesters same as Table 8a or 8 b
33 Graded and 6 non graded credits
III Semester IV Semester
ES Probability, Statistics, 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Materials 3 × 3 - 3
Stochastic Processes Science & 1-0-0
Engineering
ES Modern Physics 3-0-0 3 - 3 ES Embedded 3-0-2 5 - 4
Systems and
IoT
IE Thermodynamics 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Pattern 3-0-2 5 - 4
Recognition
and Machine
Learning
ES Data Structures and 3-0-2 5 - 4 ES Design of 3-0-0 3 - 3
Algorithms Experiments
IE Signals and Systems 3-1-0 4 - 4 ES Modelling and 3-0-2 5 - 4
Simulation
NE Intro. To Profession 0-0-2 2 1 IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 - 3
Total 15-3-4 22 1 19 Total 18-0-6 24 - 21
V Semester VI Semester
PC Maths for Comp. 3-1-0 4 - 4 PC PCS-1 2-0-2 2 3
DA of Algorithm 3-1-0 4 - 4 PCS-2 3-0-2 4 6 - 4
Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3 - 3 Data Engg 3-0-3 6 - 4.5
Optimization in ML - Data 3-0-3 - 4.5
HMI 3-0-3 6 4.5 Visualization 6
Deep Learning 3-0-3 4.5
0-0-4 4 2 AI+X / DS+ X 3
Dependable AI 3-0-0 3 3
3-0-0 3
PE Programme/ 3-0-0 3 3
Engineering Science
Elective/ Multimodal
Bouquet (3)
IH Humanities II 3-0-0 3 - 3
NH Professional Ethics I 0-1-0 1 - NH Ethics, Policy, 0-0-2 1 -
Law and
Regulations in
AI
Total 18-3-7 27 1 23.5 Total 20-0-15 30 1 26.5
VII Semester VIII Semester
PP B. Tech. Project 0-0-6 6 - 3 PE/ Programme/ 14-0-0 14 - 14
ES Engineering
13
Science
Electives
PC AI+X / DS+ X 3-0-0 3 3 IH Humanities III 3-0-0 3 - 3
Maths for Big Data 2-1-0 3 - 3
-
PE/ Programme/ 9-0-0 9 - 9
OE Engineering Science
Electives/
Multimodal Bouquet
(3)
IS Environmental 2-0-0 2 - 2
Science
Total 16-1-6 25 - 20 Total 17-0-0 17 - 17
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit 9 160
Non-Graded Design Credits 6 -
Grand Total 175
Note: ES are proposed Engineering Science compulsory courses
14
14. Detailed Course Content of Programme Compulsory Courses
Course Title Data Structures and Algorithms Course No. CSxxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech of all branches Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Introduction to Computer Programming
Objectives
1. To introduce and practice the implementation of various data structures used for indexing, searching,
and sorting operations.
2. To introduce basic mathematical techniques for algorithm analysis and design.
Learning Outcomes
1. Ability to design and implement appropriate data structures for indexing, searching, and sorting
operations for real-world problems.
2. Designing of new algorithms using standard data structures.
3. Analyzing the time and space complexities of standard data structures and basic algorithms.
Contents
Algorithm analysis and complexity: Big/little -Oh, Omega, Theta notation, Recurrence equations. (2
Lectures)
Abstract data types: Linear data structures, Tree, Binary trees, Tree traversal, Applications. (7 Lectures)
Search trees: Binary search trees, Balanced search trees, AVL trees, B-Trees. (5 Lectures)
Heaps: Binary Heap, Heap order property and min/max heaps. (3 Lectures)
Sets: Disjoint set ADT, Basic operations on Sets, Union/Find algorithm. (2 Lectures)
Sorting algorithms: Bubble sort, Selection sort, Bucket sort, Insertion sort, Overview of Divide-and-
conquer, Quick sort, Merge sort. (6 Lectures)
Hashing: Hash tables and operations, Hash function, Open and closed hashing, External and internal
hashing, Collision resolving methods, Rehashing. (5 Lectures)
Graph algorithms: Definitions, Branch and bound, Backtracking, Representation, Traversal, Shortest-path
algorithms, Minimum Spanning Tree algorithm, Topological sorting. (8 Lectures)
Greedy techniques and Dynamic programming (4 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Implementation of data structures using C programming language.
2. Practically verifying and comparing run-time performance and asymptotic behavior of various data
structures and related algorithms.
3. Applications of data structures from real-life scenarios.
Text Book
M. A. WEISS (2002), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C, Addison-Wesley, 2nd Edition.
Reference Book
T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009),Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press,
3rd Edition.
15
Title Principles of Computer Systems - I Course No. AIDSLXXX
Department CSE, AI & DS Structure (L-T-P [C]) 2–0–2 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (AI) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Maths for Computing Antirequisite Computer Architecture
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Explain necessary layered abstraction of a system
2. Provide an understanding of basic concepts of several hardware components and design of computing
components
3. Introduce language translation schemes
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design combinational and sequential circuits for a set of problems
2. Explain the working principles of several components of a computer
3. Design algorithms for language translations.
Contents
Introduction: Layered architecture of a system, Hardware, Software, Hardware-software Interaction (2
Lectures)
Digital Circuit Design: Combinational Circuits, Combinational Analysis and Design, Sequential Circuits,
Sequential Analysis and Design (10 Lectures)
Computer System Design: Instruction set Architecture, CPU, Performance analysis, Pipelining, Memory
Hierarchy, I/O, ILP (10 Lectures)
Language Translation: Levels of language translation, Compiler, Semantic Analysis, Code generation (6
Lectures)
Laboratory
Digital Logic Circuits, Digital Hardware, VHDL state machines, Machine Language Design, Memory, CPU,
Assembler, Parallel Programming.
Text Books
1. S. WARFORD (2017), Computer Systems, Jones and Bartlett Learning, 5th Edition.
2. R. BRYANT, D. O’HALLARON (2016), Computer Systems A Programmer’s Perspective, Pearson, 3rd
Edition.
Reference Books
1. Saltzer, J. and Kaashoek, F. (2009), Control Systems - Principles & Design, 3rd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann
2. John L. Hennesy, David A. Patterson (2017), Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 6th
Edition, Morgan Kaufmann.
Online Material
NPTEL Course, Foundations of Computer Systems Design, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106197/
16
Title Principles of Computer Systems - II Course No. AIDSLXXX
Department CSE, AI & DS Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech (AI & DS) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Principles of Computer Systems - I Antirequisite OS, CN
(Same Semester)
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Explain necessary layered abstraction of a system
2. Provide an understanding of the fundamentals of operating systems and networking
3. Introduce the concepts of Virtualization
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Explain the working principles of operating systems
2. Design interconnected environments using basic networking protocols.
3. Apply concepts of Virtualization in a practical environment
Contents
Introduction: Layered architecture of a system, Kernel, Network-Operating System Interaction (4 Lectures)
Process Management:Process, process states, concurrent processes, inter-process communication,
Synchronization, Deadlock (12 Lectures)
Storage management: Memory Allocation, Virtual Memory, File Management (9 Lectures)
Network Design:Working principles, Layered Architecture, IP Addressing, Protocols for Transport, and
Application Layers. (12 Lectures)
Virtualization: Basics of Virtual Machines, Containers, Virtualization techniques, Cloud and Data Centers
(5 Lectures)
Laboratory
Introduction to the Linux environment, Process Management, and Synchronization, Scheduling, Memory
Management, Client-Server message passing, Internet protocols, IP addressing, peer to peer protocol,
virtualization.
Text Books
1. S. WARFORD (2017), Computer Systems, Jones and Bartlett Learning, 5th Edition.
2. N.F. SCHNEIDEWIND, (2012), Computer, Network, Software, and Hardware Engineering with
Applications, Wiley-IEEE Press.
Reference Books
1. A. SILBERSCHATZ, P.B. GALVIN, G. GAGNE (2013), Operating System Concepts, Wiley 8th Edition.
2. S. DAS (2017), UNIX Concepts and Applications, Tata McGraw-Hill.
3. J. KUROSE, K.ROSS (2016), Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, Pearson, 7th Edition.
Online Material
1. NPTEL Course: Operating System Fundamentals, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105214/
2. NPTEL Course: Computer Network and Internet Protocol,
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106091/
17
Course Title Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Course No. CSL2xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2
Offered for B.Tech (CSE, AIDE, EE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Introduction to Computer Sc., Probability, Antirequisite Introduction to
Statistics and Stochastic Processes Machine Learning
Objectives
1. To understand various key paradigms for pattern classification and machine learning approaches
2. To familiarize with the mathematical and statistical techniques used in pattern recognition and machine
learning.
3. To understand and differentiate among various pattern recognition and machine learning techniques.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. To formulate a machine learning problem
2. Select an appropriate pattern analysis tool for analyzing data in a given feature space.
3. Apply pattern recognition and machine learning techniques such as classification and feature selection
to practical applications and detect patterns in the data.
Contents
Introduction: Definitions, Datasets for Pattern Recognition, Different Paradigms of Pattern Recognition and
Machine Learning, Data Normalization, Hypothesis Evaluation, VC-Dimensions and Distribution, Bias-
Variance Tradeoff, Regression (Linear) (8 Lectures)
Discriminative Methods: Distance-based methods, Linear Discriminant Functions, Decision Tree, Random
Decision Forest and Boosting (5 Lectures)
Bayes Decision Theory: Bayes decision rule, Minimum error rate classification, Normal density and
discriminant functions, Bayesian networks (7 Lectures)
Parameter Estimation: Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Parameter Estimation (3 Lectures)
Feature Selection and Dimensionality Reduction:PCA, LDA, ICA, SFFS, SBFS (4 Lectures)
Artificial Neural Networks: MLP, Backprop, and RBF-Net (4 Lectures)
Kernel Machines: Kernel Tricks, Support Vector Machines (primal and dual forms), K-SVR, K-PCA (6
Lectures)
Clustering: k-means clustering, Gaussian Mixture Modeling, EM-algorithm (5 Lectures)
Laboratory
Programming labs on Normalization, Visualization, Evaluation, Regressions, Decision Tree, Bayes,
Parameter Estimation, PCA, LDA, ANN, SVM, K-means, GMM, Feature Selection
Text Book
1. R. O. DUDA, P. E. HART, D. G. STORK (2000), Pattern Classification, Wiley-Blackwell, 2nd Edition.
Reference Books
1. C. M. BISHOP (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer-Verlag New York, 1st
Edition.
2. T. M. MITCHELL (2017), Machine Learning, McGraw Hill Education, 1st Edition.
Self-learning Material
1. Introduction to Machine Learning, NPTEL Course Material, Department Computer Science and
Engineering, IIT Madras: http//nptel.ac.in/courses/106106139/
2. Machine Learning, Stanford University: https://see.stanford.edu/Course/CS229
18
Course Title Maths for Computing Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-1-0 [4]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None
Objectives
1. To learn about languages, grammars, and computation models
2. To learn about computability
3. To learn basics of parsing techniques
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Model computer science problems using discrete mathematical structures
2. Distinguish between computable and uncomputable problems
3. Develop understanding of properties of languages and design parsers
Contents
Discrete Structures:Can computers solve every problem? The Limits of Computing, Set Theory, Proof
Techniques, Relations and Functions, Propositional Logic, First-Order Logic, Counting techniques. (14
Lectures)
Graph Theory: Properties of graphs, Graph matching and coloring. (7 Lectures)
Automata Theory:DFAs, NFAs, Equivalence of DFAs and NFAs, Closure Properties of Regular
Languages, Regular Expressions, Equivalence of Regular Expressions and NFAs, Nonregular Languages,
Context-Free Grammars, Context-Free Languages. (10 Lectures)
Turing Machine:Introduction, Designing Turing Machines, The Universal Turing Machine. (7 Lectures)
Parsing Techniques: LR, LALR, Shift-Reduce Parsers. (4 Lectures)
Text Books
1. M. SIPSER (2014), Introduction to the Theory of Computation, Cengage Learning, 3rd Edition.
2. K.H. ROSEN (2018), Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, McGraw-Hill, 2018, 8th Edition.
References
1. J.E. HOPCROFT, R. MOTWANI, J.D. ULLMAN (2008), Pearson, Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages, and Computation, 3rd Edition.
2. R. JOHNSONBAUGH (2017), Discrete Mathematics, Prentice Hall, 8th Edition.
Self-learning material
Stanford CS103:http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs103/
19
Course Title Design and Analysis of Algorithms Course No. CSLXxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-1-0 [4]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
1. To introduce and implement various techniques for designing algorithms and advanced data structures.
2. To learn space and time complexity analysis of algorithms.
Learning Outcomes
1. Ability to choose and implement appropriate algorithm design techniques for solving problems.
2. Understand how the choice of data structures and algorithm design methods impact the performance of
programs.
3. Ability to analyze the worst-case and average-case behaviour of algorithms in terms of time and memory
requirements.
Contents
Reasoning About Algorithms: P, NP, NP-completeness, Reductions, Complexity analysis. (5 lectures)
Graph Algorithms: Strongly-connected components, Kosaraju’s Algorithm 1 and 2, Applications. (4
lectures)
Greedy Techniques: Local versus Global optimality, Interval Scheduling, Exchange arguments. (5 lectures)
Divide-and-Conquer: Optimality, Recursive algorithms, Divide-and-Conquer Recurrences, The Master
Theorem and applications, Non-uniform Recurrences. (6 lectures)
Dynamic Programming: Reusing sub-computations (Sequence alignment, Bellman-Ford algorithm),
Precomputing (Floyd-Warshall algorithm, Johnson’s algorithm), Combinatorial problems. (Knapsack) (6
lectures)
Linear Programming: Canonical and standard forms, Feasibility and optimization, Simplex Algorithm. (5
lectures)
Approximation Algorithms: Relative Approximations, PAS and FPAS Scheduling. (4 lectures)
Randomized Algorithms: Random guess (Quick select), Random guess with high confidence (Karger’s min-
cut algorithm), Storing associative data (Hashing), Error bounds. (7 lectures)
Text Book
T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009), Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press,
3rd Edition.
Reference Book
J. KLEINBERG, E. TARDOS (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
20
Course Title Human-Machine Interaction Course No. CSL2xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 0-0-4 [2]
Offered for B.Tech (CSE, AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None
Objectives
To provide a practical understanding of human-machine interaction (HMI) design, including concepts of
user-centered and design thinking, usability, interfaces, rapid prototyping, and evaluation.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have:
1. A broad understanding of human-machine interaction and the latest technologies.
2. Understanding of perceptual and cognitive basis of human-machine interaction.
3. Knowledge of user-centered design and techniques for rapid prototyping.
4. Knowledge of assessing usefulness and usability of a design
5. Introduction to approaches for gathering and analyzing interaction data, and conveying design concepts.
Laboratory and Assignments (primary approach)
1. Find a poorly designed item (anything). Submit either a picture or sketch and describe why it is poorly
designed, Heuristic Evaluation and Interview, User Scenarios, Personas, and Storyboards, User Journeys,
Wireframes: Paper and Digital Prototyping, Prototype Evaluation Study Design, Value Sensitive Design
Evaluation (Week 1-4)
2. Design visual Interfaces (laptop, mobile) - e.g. gesture-based, Design voice interfaces - e.g. speech chatbot,
Design multimodal interactions (Week 5-14)
Text Book
H. SHARP, J. PREECE, Y. ROGERS (2019), Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction,
Wiley, 5th Edition.
Online Material
NPTEL Course, Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction,
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/106/106106177/
21
Course Title Artificial Intelligence Course No. CSL3xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (CSE, AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
To provide the foundations for AI problem solving techniques and knowledge representation formalisms.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and formulate appropriate AI methods for solving a problem.
2. Implement AI algorithms
3. Compare different AI algorithms in terms of design issues, computational complexity, and assumptions
Contents
Introduction: Uninformed search strategies, Greedy best-first search, And-Or search, Uniform cost search,
A* search, Memory-bounded heuristic search (5 Lectures)
Local Search Techniques: Beam Search, Hill Climbing Search, Genetic Search techniques (2 lectures)
Constraint Satisfaction Problems: Backtracking search for CSPs, Local search for CSPs (4 Lectures)
Adversarial Search: Optimal Decision in Games, The minimax algorithm, Alpha-Beta pruning, Expectimax
search (5 Lectures)
Knowledge and Reasoning: Propositional Logic, Reasoning Patterns in propositional logic; First order logic:
syntax, semantics, Inference in First order logic, unification and lifting, backward chaining, resolution (7
Lectures)
Representation: Information extraction, representation techniques, foundations of Ontology (4 Lectures)
Planning: Situation Calculus, Deductive planning, STRIPES, sub-goal, Partial order planner (4 Lectures)
Bayesian Network and causality: Probabilistic models, directed and undirected models, inferencing,
reasoning, causality (6 lectures)
RL: MDP, Policy, Q-value (5 Lectures)
Text Book
S. RUSSEL, P. NORVIG (2020), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Pearson, 4th Edition.
Reference Books
1. E. RICH, K. KNIGHT, S. B. NAIR (2017), Artificial Intelligence, McGraw Hill Education, 3rd Edition.
2. J. PEARL (2009), Causality: Models, Reasoning and Inference, Cambridge University Press, 2nd
Edition.
3. D. KOLLER, N. FRIEDMAN (2009), Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques, MIT Press
22
Course Title Deep Learning Course No. CSL4xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
Offered for B.Tech. AIDE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning/Pattern
Recognition and Machine Learning
Objectives
The objective of this course is
1. To introduce students through some of the latest techniques in deep learning.
2. Hands on and the students should be able to design intelligent deep learning systems for solving the
problems in the area of their interests.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand various deep learning models such CNN, Autoencoders, RNN etc.
2. Analyze various applications solved through the use of deep learning models
3. Design and implement their own deep learning models for the problem of their choice
Contents
Neural networks: DL Optimizers (SGD, MBGD, AdaGrad, Adam) and Regularization, Initialization Methods
(7 Lectures)
DL Models: Autoencoder, Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks, LSTM, Network
Architecture Search (NAS) (14 Lectures)
Deep Generative Models: Deep Belief Networks, Variational Autoencoders, Generative Adversarial
Networks, Deep Convolutional GAN (12 Lectures)
Representation learning: Unsupervised Pre-training, Transfer learning and Domain adaptation, Distributed
representation, Discovering underlying causes (9 Lectures)
Laboratory
Autoencoder, CNN, LSTM, DBM, GANs (variants), Transfer Learning, NLM, Graph NN, Adversarial losses
Text Book
I. GOODFELLOW, Y. BENGIO, A. COURVILLE (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press, 1st Edition.
Reference Books
1. A. ZHANG, Z. LIPTON, M. LI, A. SMOLA (2020) Dive into Deep Learning (Release 0.7.1),
https://d2l.ai/d2l-en.pdf.
2. D. FOSTER (2019), Generative Deep Learning, O'Reilly Media, 1st Edition.
Self-learning Material
1. Practical Machine Learning with Tensorflow, NPTEL Course Material, Department Computer Science
and Engineering, IIT Madras: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106213/
2. Stanford CS class (CS231n), Convolutional Neural Networks for Visual Recognition:
http://cs231n.github.io/
23
Course Title Dependable Artificial Intelligence Course No. CSL4xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning/Pattern Preferred Knowledge Deep
Recognition and Machine Learning, AI Learning
(same
semester)
Objectives
The Instructor will:
Provide characteristic details of AI and machine learning systems to make them dependable, such as
explainability, interpretability, safety etc.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Assess the dependability of AI systems.
2. Develop explainable, robust, and safe AI models.
Contents
Introduction: Overview, Motivation, Challenges – medical and surveillance (3 Lectures)
Explainable AI: Accuracy-explainabilityTradeoff, Interpretability Problem, Predictability, Transparency,
Traceability, Causality, Reasoning, Attention and Saliency (10 Lectures)
Interpretable AI: Prediction Consistency, Application Level Evaluation, Human Level Evaluation,
Function Level Evaluation (5 Lectures)
Adversarial Robustness: Adversarial Attacks and Defences (8 Lectures)
Trustworthy AI: Integrity, Reproducibility, Accountability (2 Lectures)
Bias-free AI: Accessibility, Fair, Data Agnostics Design, Disentanglement (4 Lectures)
Privacy Preserving AI:Federated Learning, Differential Privacy and Encrypted Computation (6 Lectures)
Verified AI:Environment and Specification Modeling, Design with Formal Inductive Synthesis,
Evaluation Platforms for AI Safety (4 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. J. PEARL (2018), The Book of Why: The New Science of Cause and Effect, Basic Books.
2. N. BOSTROM (2014), The Ethics of Artificial Intelligence. The Cambridge Handbook of Artificial
Intelligence, Cambridge University Press.
Self-learning Material
Udacity course on Secure and Private AI: https://www.udacity.com/course/secure-and-private-ai--
ud185
24
Title Data Engineering Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering, Maths Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Principles of Computer System - II/ Antirequisite Database
Operating System Systems
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce fundamental concepts in representing data, accessing it and analysing it
2. Explore applications in data science and big data projects
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Develop suitable data science ecosystem for the given application
2. Understand various data storage and retrieval techniques
3. Understand SQL and NoSQL databases and their usage
4. Analyse data using Python and Python-based tools
Contents
Introduction: Data source, Big Data, Structured and unstructured data (2 Lectures)
Data Models and Storage: Relational databases, NoSQL database, normalized and denormalized data
models, Data cleaning, Distributed Data Storage and Management, Hashing, Indexing ( 14 Lectures)
Query processing: Querying big data using SQL and NoSQL, Elastic Search, Query optimization,
speeding up, maintaining ACID property, Design Patterns, Data reliability, quality and provenance,
Distributed query processing, Query optimization and Processing (16 Lectures)
Data Warehousing: OLAP, OLTP (4 Lectures)
Streaming Data analytics: In-memory Analytics, data pipelines and dashboards, Predictive Analytics (6
Lectures)
Laboratory
Lab exercises should be in accordance with the theory Lectures. The lab sessions may cover the
following topics:
1. Data Collection Techniques
2. Indexing implementation for the structured data and unstructured data
3. SQL queries (schema, DDL, DML, DQL)
4. Data format interchange using XML, JSON
5. NoSQL system (HBase, Hive, MongoDB)
6. Data wrangling, data operations (e.g. NumPy)
7. Hadoop, Spark and MapReduce
Textbooks
1. M. KLEPPMANN (2017), Designing Data-Intensive Applications The Big Ideas Behind Reliable,
Scalable, and Maintainable Systems, O’Reilly.
2. L. WEISE (2015), Advanced Data Management: For SQL, NoSQL, Cloud and Distributed Databases,
Walter de Gruyter GmbH.
3. A. SILBERSCHATZ, H.F. KORTH, S. SUDARSHAN (2011), Database System Concepts, McGraw Hill
Publications, 6th Edition.
Reference books
1. H.G. MOLINA, J. ULLMAN, J. WIDOM (2014), Database Systems: The Complete Book, Pearson, 2nd
Edition.
2. P. RAJ, A. RAMAN, D. NAGARAJ, S. DUGGIRALA (2015), High-Performance Big-Data Analytics:
Computing Systems and Approaches, Springer, 1st Edition.
Self-Learning Material
1. NPTEL course on ‘Indexing and Searching Techniques in Databases’ by Dr Arnab Bhattacharya, IIT
Kanpur: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/104/106104021/
2. NPTEL course on ‘NOC: Fundamentals of Database Systems’ by Dr Arnab Bhattacharya, IIT Kanpur:
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/104/106104135/
25
Course Title Data Visualization Course No. CSL4xx
Department Maths, CSE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
Offered for B.Tech (AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Engineering / DBMS
Objectives
The instructor will
1. Explain techniques and algorithms for creating effective visualizations based on principles from graphic
design.
2. Introduce several industry-standard software tools to create a compelling and interactive visualization of
various types of data.
Learning Outcomes
1. An understanding of the key techniques and theory used in visualization, including data models, graphical
perception, and techniques for visual encoding and interaction.
2. Exposure to a number of common data domains and corresponding analysis tasks, including multivariate
data, networks, text, and cartography.
3. Practical experience building and evaluating visualization systems.
Contents
Introduction: Data for Graphics, Design principles, Value for visualization, Categorical, time series, and
statistical data graphics, Introduction to Visualization Tools (3 Lectures)
Graphics Pipeline: Introduction, Primitives: vertices, edges, triangles, Model transforms: translations,
rotations, scaling, View transform, Perspective transform, window transform (3 Lectures).
Aesthetics and Perception: Graphical Perception Theory, Experimentation, and the Application, Graphical
Integrity, Layering and Separation, Color and Information, Using Space Effectively (5 Lectures)
Visualization Design: Visual Display of Quantitative Information, Data-Ink Maximization, Graphical Design,
Exploratory Data Analysis, Heat Map (8 Lectures)
Multidimensional Data: Query, Analysis and Visualization of Multi-dimensional Relational Databases,
Interactive Exploration, tSNE (5 Lectures)
Interaction: Interactive Dynamics for Visual Analysis, Visual Queries, Finding Patterns in Time Series Data,
Trend visualization, Animation, Dashboard, Visual Storytelling (8 Lectures)
Collaboration: Graph Visualization and Navigation, Online Social Networks, Social Data Analysis,
Collaborative Visual Analytics, Text, Map, Geospatial data (10 Lectures)
Laboratory
Visualization Design, Exploratory data analysis, Interactive Visualization Tools like Tableau, Gephi, D3, etc.
Mini Project.
Text Books
1. E. TUFTE (2001), The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, Graphics Press, 2nd Edition.
2. J. KOPONEN, J. HILDÉN (2019), Data Visualization Handbook, CRC Press.
Reference Books
1. M. LIMA (2014), The Book of Trees: Visualizing Branches of Knowledge, Princeton Architectural Press.
2. R. TAMASSIA (2013), Handbook of Graph Drawing and Visualization, CRC Press.
3. S. MURRAY (2017), Interactive Data Visualization for the Web, O'Reilly Press, 2nd Edition.
26
Course Title Maths for Big Data Course No. MAL3XXX
Department Mathematics Structure (L-T-P [C]) 2-1-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (AI & DS) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Mathematics - II, Probability, Statistics and Antirequisite CSL7093
Stochastic Processes
Objectives
To introduce basic concepts and core techniques which enable the students to handle large o equip students
with sufficient knowledge of core techniques which can be used by the students in their respective fields of
interest.
Learning Outcomes
1. Understanding of novel techniques to handle a large amount of data.
2. Develop concepts and tools to ingest, process and analyse massive data in real time.
Contents
Statistical Methods: Multivariate Analysis, Sampling theory: simple random sampling, stratified sampling,
cluster sampling, ratio and regression estimators, two stage sampling, Compressive sensing. (14 Lectures)
Numerical linear algebra: Spectral decomposition, Schur Decomposition, QR Factorization, Singular value
decomposition (SVD), PCA for large matrices, Algorithms for big matrices, Least square approximations,
Low-Rank Approximation, Manifolds. (14 Lectures)
Text Books
1. D. MINER, A. SHOOK (2016), Mapreduce Design Patterns: Building Effective Algorithms and
Analytics for Hadoop and Other Systems, O'Reilly Media.
2. V. MAYER-SCHÖNBERGER, K. CUKIER (2013), Big Data: A Revolution that Will Transform How We
Live, Work, and Think, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
3. N. MARZ, J. WARREN (2015), Big Data: Principles and Best Practices of Scalable Real-time Data
Systems, Manning.
Reference Books
1. M. MITTAL, V.E. BALAS, D.J. HEMANTH, R. KUMAR (2018), Data Intensive Computing Applications
for Big Data, IOS Press.
2. B. FURHT, A. ESCALANTE, (Eds.), Handbook of Data Intensive Computing, Springer, 2011, 1st
Edition.
3. G. STRANG (2005), Linear Algebra and its Applications, Cengage Learning, 4th Edition.
27
Course Title Optimization in ML Course No. CSL4xx
Department Mathematics Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
Offered for B.Tech (AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite PRML or Introduction to ML Antirequisite Optimization
Objectives
1. To understand the theory of optimization methods and algorithms developed for solving various types of
optimization problems
2. To apply the mathematical results and numerical techniques of optimization theory to Machine Learning
problems
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Compose existing theoretical analysis with new aspects and algorithm variants.
2. Formulate the most important optimization algorithms for machine learning applications
Contents
Introduction to optimization: Machine Learning and Optimization, linear and non-linear optimization,
discrete optimization, Network flows, convex sets, functions. (14 Lectures)
Regularizations and SGD: L1 and L2 regularization, First-order methods: gradient descent, acceleration and
subgradient method, Stochastic gradient methods, SGD heuristics and tricks, escaping saddle points. (14
Lectures)
Other topics relevant to optimization for ML: Interior point and cutting-plane methods for ML, Min-Max
Problems (convex-concave and nonconvex),Non-Euclidean and Submodular optimization. (14 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. S. BOYD, L. VANDENBERGHE (2003), Convex Optimization, Cambridge University Press.
2. S. SRA, S. NOWOZIN, S. WRIGHT, (Eds.), Optimization for Machine Learning, MIT Press, 2011.
3. E. HAZAN (2019), Lecture Notes: Optimization for Machine Learning
[https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.03550].
4. D. BERTSEKAS (2016), Nonlinear Programming, Athena Scientific, 3rd Edition.
Self Learning Material
1. http://suvrit.de/teach/6881/
28
Course Title Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulations in AI Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, AI
Objectives
1. To understand implications and consequences of ethics, law, Regulations (data - privacy, ownership, data
marketplace, etc) Policy in AI
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to develop an understanding of:
1. Ramifications of AI technologies on society
2. Ethical aspects of AI, ML and DS systems
3. Data privacy, ownership and IPR issues
4. Law, Regulations, Liabilities and Policies of AI, ML and DS systems
Contents
Ethics in AI
Law and Regulations
IPR
Policies
Case Studies
Text Book
1. Online resources
2. Will be added in future
Reference Books
29
15. Detailed Course Content of Programme Elective Courses
Course Title Advanced Machine Learning Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite PRML/Introduction to ML, AI
Objectives
This is an advanced course on Machine Learning. It is intended for senior undergraduate and graduate
students who already have a background in PR or ML. The course is designed as a set of special topics that
will be covered through research papers and books. The course will focus on algorithms and models along
with providing a good perspective of different real world applications.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the algorithms and functioning of advanced techniques and concepts such as deep learning,
distance metric learning, and domain adaptation
2. Understand the advantages and limitations of the algorithms and their potential applications
3. Run several public domain machine learning toolboxes on real world databases such as MNIST and
CIFAR10
4. Design experiments for evaluation and analyze the results to test the effectiveness of individual
components of an algorithm
Contents
Kernel Machines: Kernel properties, Kernels for structure data and text, Multiple kernel learning,
Generative models (3 Lectures)
Variants of Support Vector Machine: Hard and soft margin SVM, Online SVM, Distributed SVM (3
Lectures)
PAC Theory (6 Lectures)
Boosting: Adaboost, Gradient boosting (2 Lectures)
Structured Prediction and Graphical Models: Learning directed and undirected models, Sampling, MAP
inference and prediction, variational inference, causality (14 Lectures)
Dictionary Learning: Fundamentals, Regularization, Supervised and unsupervised dictionary, learning,
Transform learning (6 Lectures)
Deep Reinforcement Learning (8 Lectures)
Text Books
1. N. CRISTIANINI, J. S-TAYLOR (2000), An Introduction to Support Vector Machines and Other Kernel-
based Learning Methods, Cambridge University Press, 1st Edition.
2. B. SCHOLKOPF, A. J. SMOLA (2001), Learning with Kernels: Support Vector Machines, Regularization,
Optimization, and Beyond, The MIT Press, 2001, 1st Edition.
3. R. S. SUTTON, A. G. BARTO (2018), Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, The MIT Press, 2nd
Edition.
4. D. KOLLER, N. FRIEDMAN (2009), Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques, MIT
Press.
30
Course Title Advanced Artificial Intelligence Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning
Objectives
To cover modern paradigms of AI that go beyond traditional learning
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop an understanding of modern concepts in AI and where they can be used
2. Design, implement and apply novel AI techniques based on emerging real-world requirements
Contents
Making decisions: Utility theory, utility functions, decision networks, sequential decision problems,
Partially Observable MDPs, Game Theory (14 Lectures)
Reinforcement Learning: Passive RL, Active RL, Generalization in RL, Policy Search, (7 Lectures)
Probabilistic Reasoning over time: Hidden Markov Models, Kalman Filters (7 Lectures)
Knowledge Representation: Ontological engineering, Situation Calculus, semantic networks, description
logic (6 Lectures)
Planning: Planning with state space search, Partial-Order Planning, Planning Graphs, Planning with
Propositional Logic, hierarchical task network planning, non-deterministic domains, conditional planning,
continuous planning, multi-agent planning (8 Lectures)
Text Book
1. S. RUSSEL, P. NORVIG (2009), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Pearson, 3rd Edition.
Reference Book
1. E. RICH, K. KNIGHT, S. B. NAIR (2017), Artificial Intelligence, McGraw Hill Education, 3rd Edition.
2. R.S. SUTTON, A.G. BARTO (2015), Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, The MIT Press, 2nd
Edition.
31
Course Title Natural Language Understanding Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Pattern Recognition and Machine
Learning/Machine Learning 1
Objectives
1. To provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms related to Natural Language
Understanding.
2. Impart working expertise by introducing practical problems.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Formulate natural language understanding tasks
2. Design and implement basic applications of NLU
Contents
Traditional NLU: Introduction to NLU, Motivation, Morphology, Parts-of-Speech, Language Models,
Word Sense Disambiguation, Anaphora Resolution, Basics of Supervised and Semi-supervised Learning for
NLU, Hidden Markov Models for language modeling, EM Algorithm, Structured Prediction, Dependency
Parsing, Topic Models, Semantic Parsing, Sentiment analysis. (14 Lectures)
Deep Learning for NLU: Intro to Neural NLU, Word Vector representations, Neural Networks and
backpropagation -- for named entity recognition, Practical tips: gradient checks, overfitting, regularization,
activation functions, Recurrent neural networks -- for language modeling and other tasks, GRUs and LSTMs
-- for machine translation, Recursive neural networks -- for parsing, Convolutional neural networks -- for
sentence classification, Question answering and dialogue system, Graph Neural Network for NLU, Natural
Language Generation, Analysis and Interpretability of Neural NLU. (22 Lectures)
Knowledge Graphs: Knowledge graph embedding techniques, Inference on knowledge graphs. (6 Lectures)
Text Book
1. C. MANNING, H. SCHÜTZE (1999), Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing, MIT
Press.
2. D. JURAFSKY, J.H. MARTIN, Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language
Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition (3rd Edition Draft), 2019.
Reference Books
1. E. BENDER (2013), Linguistic Fundamentals for NLP, Morgan Claypool Publishers..
2. J. ALLEN (1995), Natural Language Understanding, Pearson Education, 1995.
3. Research Literature.
Self Learning Material
1. http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/index.html#schedule (Deep learning for NLP)
32
Course Title Neuromorphic Design and Computing Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Artificial Intelligence, PRML/Introduction to ML
Objectives
1. To provide information about neuroscientific progress towards reverse-engineering the brain
2. To provide essentials on key hardware building blocks, system level VLSI design and practical real-
world applications of neuromorphic Systems
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. View neuromorphic computing as a computer architecture research problem
2. Perform software and hardware implementation of basic biological neural circuits
Contents
(Fractal 1)
Foundational Concepts: Introduction to neuromorphic engineering, neuroanatomy of human brain,
signaling and operation of biological neurons, neuron models - LIF, IF, HH, synapses and plasticity rules,
spike-time-dependent plasticity (STDP), biological neural circuits, non-von Neumann computing approach,
learning rules, retina, cochlea. (14 Lectures)
(Fractal 2)
Neuromorphic Computing: Spiking Neural Networks (SNN), Advanced Nanodevices for Neuron
Implementation, Synaptic emulation - non-volatile memory (NVM), Flash, RRAM, memristors, CNT, Case
study on Intel’s Loihi neuromorphic chip. (14 Lectures)
(Fractal 3)
Hardware Implementation: Electronic synapses, Digital/Analog neuromorphic VLSI, Hardware
Implementation of Neuron circuits, Hardware Implementation of Synaptic and Learning circuits,
Synaptic programming methodology optimization. (14 Lectures)
Text Books
1. S. C. LIU (2002), Analog VLSI: Circuits and Principles, MIT Press.
2. R. KOZMA (2012), Advances in Neuromorphic Memristor Science, Springer.
3. E. KANDEL (2012), Principles of Neural Science, McGraw Hill.
33
Course Title Information Retrieval Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite PRML/Introduction to ML
Objectives
Information retrieval covers the tasks of indexing, searching, and recalling data, particularly text or other
unstructured forms. It has an important role to play in a large number of applications viz., digital libraries,
office automation, internet and e-commerce. The aim of the course is to study theoretical aspects as well
as implementation issues of classical and modern retrieval problems.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to learn and gather expertise in:
1. The underlying technologies of modern information retrieval system
2. Developing new search engines with high search accuracy
Contents
Introduction to Information Retrieval: The nature of unstructured and semi-structured text, Inverted
index and Boolean queries. (2 Lectures)
Search Engine Architecture: Basic building blocks of a modern search engine system: web crawler, basic
text analysis techniques, Inverted index, Query processing, Search result interface, Semantic search using
Ontology (7 Lectures)
Retrieval Models: Boolean vector space, TFIDF, Okapi, Probabilistic language modeling, Latent semantic
indexing, Vector space scoring, The cosine measure, Efficiency considerations, Document length
normalization, Relevance feedback and query expansion, Rocchio, Ontological models (8 Lectures)
Performance Evaluation: Evaluating search engines, User happiness, Precision, Recall, F-measure,
Creating Test collections: kappa measure, Interjudge agreement. (5 Lectures)
Text Categorization and Filtering: Introduction to text classification, Naive Bayes model, Spam filtering,
Vector space classification using hyperplanes, Centroids, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support vector machine
classifiers, Kernel functions, Boosting. (6 Lectures)
Text Clustering: Clustering versus classification, Partitioning methods, K-means clustering, Gaussian
mixture model, Hierarchical agglomerative clustering, Clustering terms using documents. (6 Lectures)
Advanced Topics: Summarization, Topic detection and tracking, Personalization, Question answering,
Cross language information retrieval (3 Lectures)
Web Information Retrieval: Hypertext, web crawling, Search engines, Ranking, Link analysis, PageRank,
HITS. (3 Lectures)
Retrieving Structured Documents: XML retrieval, Semantic web (2 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. C.D. MANNING, P. RAGHAVAN, H. SCHUETZE (2008), Introduction to Information Retrieval,
Cambridge University Press.
2. B. CROFT, D. METZLER, T. STROHMAN (2010), Search Engines: Information Retrieval in Practice,
Pearson Education.
3. B. RICARDO, B. RIBEIRO-NETO (2011), Modern Information Retrieval, Addison-Wesley, 2nd
Edition.
34
Course Title Resource Constrained AI Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Artificial Intelligence, Introduction to Machine
Learning/PRML
Objectives
1. To provide motivation and understanding of the need and importance of deploying Machine Learning
in resource constrained devices
2. To provide details about various optimized and resource efficient algorithms in Machine Learning
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the constraints of implementing AI algorithms on limited memory devices
2. Design and develop techniques to reduce inference time memory footprint of machine learning models
Contents
Introduction:Overview and motivation, challenges of resource constrained AI, why AI on edge (4 Lectures)
Edge Computing:Edge devices and their limitations, Edge and fog computing, Distributed computing,
communication links, communication overhead in IoT devices (8 Lectures)
Monitoring: Prediction accuracy, numeric accuracy, precision, memory footprints, computational
complexity of AI models (4 Lectures)
Memory Optimization of Models:KiloByte-size models, floating-point v/s fixed-point, SeeDot (8 Lectures)
Edge AI:Resource-efficient kNN, SVM and deep learning models, Toeplitz matrix, Bonsai, ProtoNN, EMI-
RNN, FastRNN, FastGRNN (10 Lectures)
Current Trends and Future:Hardware accelerators for Edge AI, Vision Processing Unit (VPU), Streaming
Hybrid Architecture Vector Engine (SHAVE), Intel’s Movidius Neural Compute Stick (NCS), Open Neural
Network Exchange (ONNX), Future trends (10 Lectures)
Laboratory
Implementation of Bonsai, CNN training using SeeDot language.
Text Book
1. C. ALIPPI (2014), Intelligence for Embedded Systems: A Methodological Approach, Springer, 1st
Edition.
Preparatory Course Material
1. EdgeML by Microsoft,https://github.com/Microsoft/EdgeML/#edge-machine-learning
2. NCSDK by Intelhttps://github.com/movidius/ncsdk
35
Title Social Networks Course No. CSL4XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
Provide introduction to social network analysis, its mathematical foundation and application.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected
1. To gain the ability to understand the applications related to social networks
2. Write program with social network datasets and Formulate real-world problems with any relational
data set resembling social networks
Contents
Introduction: Graphs, Social Networks, Network Types, Network Data Sets, Gephi for Network Analysis
(5 Lectures)
Network Properties: Network Measures, Strong and Weak Ties, Homophily, Structural Balance,
Components (4 Lectures)
Network Models: Random Networks, Scale Free Networks, The Barabási-Albert Model, Erdos-Renyi Model
(5 Lectures)
Structural Analysis of Networks using Python: Python for Network Analysis, Empirical Studies, Structural
Properties, Generate Synthetic Networks, Working with signed networks (5 Lectures)
Social Network Applications: Information Cascades, Small-World Phenomenon, Epidemics, Community
Detection, Link Prediction, Page Rank (14 Lectures)
Evolving Network and Temporal Networks: Network evolution, working with Temporal Network Data (5
Lectures)
Multiplex and Multi-layer network (1 Lecture)
Network Analysis in Other Fields:Network Analysis in Biology, Sports, Transports (3 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. D. EASLEY, J. KLEINBERG (2010), Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly
Connected World, Cambridge University Press.
(http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/kleinber/networks-book/)
2. A. BARABASI (2016), Network Science, Cambridge University Press.
(http://barabasi.com/networksciencebook/)
3. M. NEWMAN (2018), Networks, Oxford University Press, 2nd Edition.
(https://global.oup.com/academic/product/networks-9780198805090?cc=us&lang=en&#/)
Reference Books
1. C. GROS (2015), Complex and Adaptive Dynamical Systems, Springer, Springer, 4th Edition.
2. E. ESTRADA (2011), The Structure of Complex Networks Theory and Applications, Oxford University
Press.
3. W. de NOOY, A. MRVAR, V. BATAGELJ (2018), Exploratory Social Network Analysis with Pajek,
Cambridge University Press, 3rd Edition.
Self Learning Material
1. https://www.barabasilab.com/course
2. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106169/#
36
Course Title Stream Analytics Course No. CSLxxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech 3rd and 4th years; PG Type Elective
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning, PRML
Objectives
Provide background on some of the important models, algorithms, and applications related to stream data.
Learning Outcomes
Ability to understand and apply the practical and algorithmic aspects related to various topics of data
streams
Contents
Introduction: Stream and mining algorithms. (2 Lectures)
Clustering Massive Data Streams: Micro-clustering based stream mining, Clustering evolving data
streams, Online Micro-cluster maintenance, High-dimensional projected stream clustering, Classification
of data streams using micro-clustering, On-demand stream classification, Applications of micro-
clustering. (12 Lectures)
Classification Methods in Data Streams: Ensemble based classification, Very fast decision trees, On-
demand classification, Online Information Network. (6 Lectures)
Distributed Mining of Data Streams: Outlier and anomaly detection, Clustering, Frequent itemset mining,
Classification, Summarization. (6 Lectures)
Change Diagnosis Algorithms in Evolving Data Streams: Velocity density method, Clustering for
characterizing stream evolution. (4 Lectures)
Multidimensional Analysis of Data Streams using Stream Cubes: Architecture for online analysis of data
streams, Stream data cube computation, Performance study. (6 Lectures)
Dimensionality Reduction and Forecasting on Streams: Principal Component Analysis, Auto-regressive
models and recursive least squares, Tracking correlations and hidden variables. (6 Lectures)
Text Book
C.C. AGGARWAL, (Ed.), Data Stream: Models and Algorithms, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2007.
37
Title Computer Vision Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite Linear Algebra
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms behind some of the remarkable
success of Computer Vision
2. Impart working expertise by means of programming assignments and a project
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Learn and appreciate the usage and implications of various Computer Vision techniques in real-world
scenarios
2. Design and implement basic applications of Computer Vision
Contents
Introduction: The Three R’s - Recognition, Reconstruction, Reorganization (1 Lecture)
Fundamentals: Formation, Filtering, Transformation, Alignment, Color (5 Lectures)
Image Restoration: Spatial Processing and Wavelet-based Processing (5 Lectures)
Geometry:Homography, Warping, Epipolar Geometry, Stereo, Structure from Motion, Optical flow (9 Lectures)
Segmentation:Key point Extraction, Region Segmentation (e.g., boosting, graph-cut and level-set), RANSAC (6
Lectures)
Feature Description and Matching:Key-point Description, handcrafted feature extraction (SIFT, LBP) (3
Lectures)
Deep Learning based Segmentation and Recognition: DL-based Object detection (e.g. Mask-RCNN, YOLO),
Semantic Segmentation, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based approaches to visual recognition (9
Lectures)
Applications: Multimodal and Multitask Applications (4 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. R. HARTLEY, A. ZISSERMAN (2004), Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision, Cambridge University
Press, 2nd Edition.
2. R. SZELISKI, (2010), Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, Springer-Verlag London.
Reference Books
1. Research literature
38
Course Title Introduction to AR and VR Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Graphics
Objectives
1. To discuss issues focusing upon the human element of VR.
2. To explain the Hardware and software related issues related to VR.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Explain perceptual concepts governing virtual reality.
2. Identify and solve the issues of various virtual reality frameworks.
3. Design immersive experience using VR Software
Contents
(Fractal 1)
Introduction: Definition of X-R (AR, VR, MR), modern experiences, historical perspective, Hardware,
sensors, displays, software, virtual world generator, game engines (6 Lectures)
Geometry of Visual World: Geometric modeling, transforming rigid bodies, yaw, pitch, roll, axis-angle
representation, quaternions, 3D rotation inverses and conversions, homogeneous transforms, transforms to
displays, look-at, and eye transform, canonical view and perspective transform, viewport transforms (8
Lectures)
(Fractal 2)
Light and Optics: Interpretation of light, reflection, optical systems (4 Lectures)
Visual Perception: Photoreceptors, Eye and Vision, Motion, Depth Perception, Frame rates and displays
(6 Lectures)
Tracking: Orientation, Tilt, Drift, Yaw, Lighthouse approach (4 Lectures)
(Fractal 3)
Head Mounted Display: Optics, Inertial Measurement Units, Orientation Tracking with IMUs, Panoramic
Imaging and Cinematic VR, Audio (8 Lectures)
Frontiers: Touch, haptics, taste, smell, robotic interfaces, telepresence, brain-machine interfaces (6
Lectures)
Text Books
1. M. SHIRLEY (2016), Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, CRC Press, 4th Edition.
2. LA VALLE (2016), Virtual Reality, Cambridge University Press.
Reference Books
1. J. JERALD (2015), The VR Book: Human-Centered Design for Virtual Reality, Morgan & Claypool.
2. G. MATHER (2016), Foundations of Sensation and Perception, Psychology Press, 3rd Edition.
3. S. MARSCHNER, P. SHIRLEY (2015), Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, CRC Press, 4th Edition.
4. D. A. BOWMAN, E. KRUIJFF, J. J. LAVIOLA, I. POUPYREV (2017), 3D User Interfaces: Theory and
Practice, Addison Wesley Professional, 2nd Edition.
Self Learning Material
1. Virtual Reality, NPTEL, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106138/.
39
Course Title Advanced Biometrics Course No. CSL7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering, AIDE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Pattern Recognition and Machine
Learning/Deep Learning/Machine Learning 1
Objectives
1. To familiarize the students with types of biometrics including physical and behavioural modalities,
understanding biometric strengths, weaknesses and limitations, and biometric standards.
2. Describe a few techniques for designing biometric systems
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop new biometric systems for real-world applications, and become familiar with various stages of
biometric system development.
2. Develop an understanding of future direction and emerging technologies in biometrics.
Contents
Introduction:Biometric system design, Genesis of biometrics: human body properties, and biometric data
acquisition, System architecture, Performance Evaluation: Verification, Identification (4 Lectures)
Traditional and Emerging Biometric Modalities: Image/signal processing, Fingerprint matching, face
recognition, iris modelling, signature authentication, biometric pattern recognition, multi-modal biometrics
(23 Lectures)
Biometric Security: Encryption, cancelable biometrics and fuzzy vault (6 Lectures)
Biometric Devices: Security-Target design, Reliability design, Industry standards (6 Lectures)
Biomedical applications of Biometrics (3 Lectures)
Text Book
1. A.K. JAIN, A. ROSS, K. NANDAKUMAR (2011), Introduction to Biometrics, Springer.
Reference Books
1. A.K. JAIN, A. ROSS, K. NANDAKUMAR, (Eds.), Handbook of Biometrics, Springer, 2008.
2. S.Z. LI, A.K. JAIN, (Eds.), Handbook of Face Recognition, Springer, 2011, 2nd Edition.
3. D. MALTONI, D. MAIO, A. JAIN, S. PRABHAKAR, (Eds.), Handbook of Fingerprint Recognition,
Springer, 2009, 2nd Edition.
4. M.J. BURGE, K.W. BOWYER, (Eds.), Handbook of Iris Recognition, Springer, 2016, 2nd Edition.
5. On-line resources will be provided.
40
Course Title Computer Graphics Course No. CSL4xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
To provide a thorough introduction to computer graphics techniques, focusing on 2D and 3D
modelling, image synthesis and rendering
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Create and explain graphics primitives and interactive graphics applications in C++
2. Synthesize and render 2D and 3D worlds for visualization and animation
Contents
Introduction to Computer Graphics & Graphics Systems: Overview of computer graphics, representing
pictures, preparing, presenting & interacting with pictures for presentations, OpenGL Primitives (3
Lectures)
Scan Conversions: Points & lines, Line drawing algorithms, Circle generation algorithm; Ellipse
generating algorithm; scan line polygon, fill algorithm, Clipping algorithms: line and polygon, anti-
aliasing (6 Lectures)
Transformations and Viewing: Basic transformations: translation, rotation, scaling; Matrix
representations and homogeneous coordinates, transformations between coordinate systems; reflection
shear; Viewing pipeline, Window to viewport coordinate transformation, clipping operations, viewport
clipping, 3D viewing (9 Lectures)
Curves and Surfaces: Conics, parametric and non-parametric forms; Curves and Splines; Surfaces and
NURBS, 3-D modelling (8 Lectures)
Hidden Surfaces: Depth comparison, Z-buffer algorithm, Back face detection, BSP tree method, the
Printer’s algorithm, scan-line algorithm; Hidden line elimination, wire frame methods (6 Lectures)
Color and Shading Models:Phong's shading model, Gouraud shading, Shadows and background, Color
models, Photo-realistic rendering, Radiosity (5 Lectures)
Animation: Functions, pipeline, sample programs for drawing 2-D, 3-D objects; event handling and
view manipulation (5 Lectures)
Text Book
1. D. HEARN, P. BAKER (2002), Computer Graphics, Pearson Education India, 2002, 2nd Edition.
Reference Books
1. J. F. HUGHES, A. VAN DAM, M. McGUIRE, D.F. SKLAR, J. D. FOLEY, S. K. FEINER, K.
AKELEY (2014), Computer Graphics: Principles and Practices, Addison Wesley, 3rd Edition.
2. D. F. ROGERS, J. A. ADAMS (1989), Mathematical Elements for Computer Graphics, McGraw
Hill, 2nd Edition.
3. Z. XIANG, R. PLASTOCK (2015), Schaum’s Outline of Computer Graphics, McGraw Hill
Education, 2nd Edition.
4. J. KESSENICH, G. SELLERS, D. SHREINER (2017), OpenGL Programming Guide, Pearson
Education, 9th Edition.
Self Learning Material
NPTEL Computer Science and Engineering - Computer Graphics:
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106090/.
41
Course Title Cyber Security Course No. CS 7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Computer Networks
Objectives
The Instructor will provide the skills needed to protect networks, secure electronic assets, prevent
attacks, ensure the privacy of your customers, and build secure infrastructure.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. To protect data and respond to threats that occur over the Internet
2. Design and implement risk analysis, security policies, and damage assessment
3. To Provide contingency operations that include administrative planning process for incident
response, disaster recovery, and business continuity planning within information security
Contents
Introduction to Cyber Security: Internet Governance – Challenges and Constraints, Cyber Threats. (2
Lectures)
Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards: Cyber Security Vulnerabilities, Cyber
Security Safeguards, Access control, Audit, Authentication, Biometrics, Cryptography, Deception, Denial
of Service Filters, Ethical Hacking, Firewalls, Response, Scanning, Security policy, Threat Management. (8
Lectures)
Securing Web Application, Services and Servers: Basic security for HTTP Applications and Services, Basic
Security for SOAP Services, Identity Management and Web Services, Authorization Patterns, Security
Considerations, Challenges. (8 Lectures)
Intrusion Detection and Prevention: Intrusion detection and Prevention Techniques, Anti-Malware
software, Network based Intrusion detection Systems, Network based Intrusion Prevention Systems,
Host based Intrusion prevention Systems, Security Information Management, Network Session Analysis,
System Integrity Validation. (7 Lectures)
Overview of Firewalls: Types of Firewalls, User Management, VPN Security Security Protocols: - PGP
and S/MIME, Security at Transport Layer- SSL and TLS, Security at Network Layer-IPSec. (5 Lectures)
Cyberspace and the Law: Cyber Security Regulations, Roles of International Law, the state and Private
Sector in Cyberspace, Cyber Security Standards. The INDIAN Cyberspace, National Cyber Security
Policy. (6 Lectures)
Cyber Forensics: Handling Preliminary Investigations, Controlling an Investigation, Conducting disk-
based analysis, Investigating Information-hiding, Scrutinizing E-mail, Validating E-mail header
information, Tracing Internet access, Tracing memory in real-time. (6 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Design and implementation of a simple client/server model and running application using sockets
and TCP/IP.
2. To make students aware of the insecurity of default passwords, printed passwords and passwords
transmitted in plain text.
3. To teach students how to use SSH for secure file transfer or for accessing local computers using port
forwarding technique.
4. Comparison between Telnet and SSH for Secure Connection
5. AVISPA Tool for the Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications
Text Book
C.J. HOOFNAGLE (2016), Federal Trade Commission Privacy Law and Policy, Cambridge University
Press, 2016.
Self Learning Material
1. P.W. SINGER, A. FRIEDMAN (2014), Cybersecurity: What Everyone Needs to Know, OUP, 1st Edition.
2. L. THAMES, D. SCHAEFER (2017), Cybersecurity for Industry 4.0, Springer, 1st Edition.
3. N. HASSAN, R. HIJAZI (2017), Digital Privacy and Security Using Windows, Apress, 1st Edition.
42
Course Title Distributed Database Systems Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P 3-0-0 [3]
[C])
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisites Operating Systems, Database Systems, Computer
Networks, Data Communication
Objective
To understand and appreciate concepts of distributed database design, and its associated issues of
consistency, concurrency, optimization, integrity, reliability, privacy, and security.
Learning Outcome
Ability to understand the need for distributed database systems and its related complexities pertaining to
fragmentation, replication, availability, concurrency, consistency and recovery.
Contents
Introduction: Distributed data processing concepts, What is a DDBS - advantages, disadvantages and
problem areas. (2 Lectures)
Distributed Database Management System Architectures: Transparencies, architecture, global directory
concepts and issues. (3 Lectures)
Distributed Database Design: Design strategies, design issues, fragmentation, data allocation. (4 Lectures)
Semantics Data Control: View management, data security, semantic integrity control. (5 Lectures)
Query Processing: Objectives, characterization of processors, layers of processing, query decomposition,
data localization. (5 Lectures)
Query Optimization: Factors, centralized query optimization, fragmented query ordering, query
optimization algorithms. (5 Lectures)
Transaction Management: Goals, properties, models. (4 Lectures)
Concurrency Control: Concurrency control in centralized systems, concurrency control in DDBSs -
algorithms, deadlock management. (5 Lectures)
Reliability: Issues and types of failures, reliability techniques, commit protocols, recovery protocols. (5
Lectures)
Other Avenues: Parallel Database Systems, Multi-databases. (4 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. S. CERI, G. PELAGATTI (2008), Distributed Databases: Principles and Systems, McGraw-Hill, 1st
Edition (2017 Reprint).
2. M.T. ÖZSU, P. VALDURIEZ (2011), Principles of Distributed Database Systems, Springer, 3rd Edition.
43
Title Introduction to Blockchain Course No. CSL 7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD. Type Elective
Prerequisite Network Security
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Explain how blockchain technology works
2. Integrate blockchain technology into the current business processes to make them secure
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand what and why of Blockchain
2. Explore major components of Blockchain and Identify a use case for a Blockchain application
3. Create their own Blockchain network application
Contents
Introduction to Blockchain:Digital Trust, Asset, Transactions, Distributed Ledger Technology, Types of
network, Components of blockchain (cryptography, ledgers, consensus, smart contracts). (5 Lectures)
PKI and Cryptography:Private keys, Public keys, Hashing, Digital Signature. (6 Lectures)
Consensus:Byzantine Fault, Proof of Work, Proof of Stake. (6 Lectures)
Cryptocurrency:Bitcoin creation and economy, Limited Supply and Deflation, Hacks, Ethereum concept
and Ethereum classic. (10 Lectures)
Hyperledger Fabric:Hyperledger Architecture, Membership, Blockchain, Transaction, Chaincode,
Hyperledger Fabric, Features of Hyperledger, Fabric Demo. (8 Lectures)
Blockchain Applications:Building on the Blockchain, Ethereum Interaction - Smart Contract and Token
(Fungible, non-fungible), Languages,, Blockchain-as-a-service. (6 Lectures)
Textbook
A. BAHGA, V. MADISETTI (2017), Blockchain Applications: A Hands-On Approach, VPT.
Self Learning Material
1. M. SWAN (2015), Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy, O’Reilly Media.
2. R. WATTENHOFER (2016), The Science of the Blockchain, CreateSpace Independent Publishing
Platform.
3. I. BASHIR (2017), Mastering blockchain, Packt Publishing Ltd.
4. K.E. LEVY, Book-smart, Not Street-smart: Blockchain-based Smart Contracts and the Social Workings
of Law, Engaging Science, Technology, and Society, vol. 3, pp. 1-15, 2017.
Preparatory Course Material
MIT Online Blockchain Course, Learn Blockchain Technology: https://getsmarter.mit.edu/
44
Title Soft Computing Techniques Course No. CSL7XXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering, Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
AIDE
Offered for B.Tech, M.Tech. 1st Year, Ph.D. 1st Year Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
Introduction of different soft computing techniques, their integration and applications.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and describe soft computing techniques
2. Understand soft computing approaches in problem solving
3. Formulate real-world methodologies to data mining using soft computing tools
Contents
Introduction to Soft Computing: Difference between soft and hard computing, Fuzzy Computing, Neural
Computing, Genetic Algorithms, Associative Memory, Adaptive Resonance Theory, Applications (4
Lectures)
Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Systems: Membership functions, Fuzzy operations, Fuzzy relations, Fuzzy
proposition, Fuzzy implication, Fuzzification, Fuzzy inference, Fuzzy rule based systems, Defuzzification
(7 Lectures)
Genetic Algorithm: Representation, Fitness function, Population, Operators – Selection, Mutation,
Crossover, Others, Multi-objective optimization problems (8 Lectures)
Metaheuristic and Swarm Intelligence: Ant colony optimization, Bee colony optimization, Particle swarm
optimization, Cuckoo search algorithm and others (6 Lectures)
Rough Sets, Knowledge representations, Rough decision making and data mining techniques, Granular
Computing (5 Lectures)
Hybrid Systems: Neuro-fuzzy systems, Rough-neural computing, Fuzzy logic and Genetic Algorithm, GA
based back propagation networks, Fuzzy associative memories, Hybrid systems using fuzzy and rough
sets (9 Lectures)
Big Data Challenges and Soft Computing Opportunity: Uncertainties in Big Data Inputs, Uncertainties in
Big Data Decisions (3 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. S.N. SIVANANDAM, S.N. DEEPA (2018), Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley India, 2018, 3rd Edition.
2. F.O. KARRAY, C. De SILVA (2004), Soft Computing and Intelligent Systems Design: Theory, Tools and
Applications, Pearson Education.
3. Z. PAWLAK (1991), Rough Sets: Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Springer Netherlands.
Self Learning Material
1. Computer Science and Engineering - NOC: Introduction to Soft Computing:
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105173/
2. Soft Computing — IT60108: http://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~dsamanta/courses/sca/index.html.
3. Soft Computing: http://www.myreaders.info/html/soft_computing.html.
45
Course Title Randomized Algorithms Course No. CSL7xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Elective
Prerequisite DAA, PSSP
Objectives
This course presents basic concepts in the design and analysis of randomized algorithms.
Learning Outcomes
1. Familiarity with several of the main thrusts of work in randomized algorithms.
2. Ability to read current research publications in the area
3. Ability to design and analyze algorithms for solving real problems.
Contents
Tools and Techniques: Basic probability theory; randomized complexity classes; game-theoretic techniques;
Markov, Chebyshev, and moment inequalities; limited independence; tail inequalities and the Chernoff
bound; conditional expectation; the probabilistic method; Markov chains and random walks; algebraic
techniques; probability amplification and derandomization. (22 Lectures)
Applications: Sorting and searching; data structures; combinatorial optimization and graph algorithms;
geometric algorithms and linear programming; approximation and counting problems; parallel and
distributed algorithms; online algorithms. (20 Lectures)
Text Books
R. MOTWANI, P. RAGHAVAN (1995), Randomized Algorithms, Cambridge University Press, 1st Edition.
Reference Books
1. M. MITZENMACHER, E. UPFAL (2017), Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and
Probabilistic Analysis, Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
2. W. FELLER (2008), An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications, Volumes I and II, John
Wiley, 2nd Edition.
3. P. BILLINGSLEY (2012), Probability and Measure, John Wiley.
Self Learning
https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-856j-randomized-
algorithms-fall-2002/lecture-notes/.
46
Title Video Processing Course No. CSLXXXX
Department CSE, EE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite Linear Algebra
Objectives
1. To make the students familiar with several issues and challenges involved in the task of video
processing
2. To enable students to formulate problems related to video processing and explore solutions
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Address the challenging issues of video processing and to come with new solutions by their own
2. Handle multi-dimensional signals other than videos
Contents
Digital Images and Video:Human Visual Systems, Analog Video, Digital Video, 3D Video, Video Quality
(2 Lectures)
Multi Dimensional Signals and Systems: Multi-dimensional Signals, Multi-dimensional Systems, Multi-
dimensional transforms, Multi-dimensional Sampling Theory (7 Lectures)
Motion Estimation: Camera Models, Motion Models, Motion Estimation, Differential Methods, Matching
Methods, Non-linear Optimization Methods, 3-D Motion and Shape Estimation (10 Lectures)
Video Segmentation and Tracking: Basics of Segmentation, Video based Segmentation Algorithms Change
Detection, Motion Segmentation, Motion Tracking, Performance Evaluation (10 Lectures)
Video Filtering:Spatio-temporal Filtering, Video Format Conversion, Multi-Frame Noise Filtering, Multi-
Frame Restoration (6 Lectures)
Video Compression: Motion JPEG 2000, MPEG-4, HEVC, SHVC, H.264 (3 Lectures)
Modern Topics in Video Processing: Ego-centric Video Processing, 360-degree Video, Streaming Video (4
Lectures)
Textbooks
1. A.M. TEKALP (2015), Digital Video Processing, Prentice Hall Signal Processing Series, 2nd Edition.
2. A. BOVIK (2009), The Essential Guide to Video Processing, Academic Press, 2nd Edition.
Reference Books
1. E. MAGGIO, A. CAVALLARO (2011), Video Tracking: Theory and Practice, Wiley and Sons.
2. M. WOHL (2017), The 360° Video Handbook.
3. Research literature
47
Title Digital Image Processing Course No. CSLXXX
Department CSE, EE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite Linear Algebra
Objectives
1. To introduce the origin and formation of digital imaging.
2. To develop the understanding of different types of imaging techniques for different purposes.
3. To equip the students with various possible applications of the image analysis.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Enhance image in spatial and frequency domain.
2. Implement various aspects of image segmentation and compression.
Contents
Digital Image Fundamentals: Image modeling, Sampling and Quantization, Imaging Geometry, Digital
Geometry, Image Acquisition Systems, Different types of digital images (3 Lectures)
Image Transforms: Basic transforms: Spatial and Frequency Domain Transforms (8 Lectures)
Image Enhancement: Point processing, interpolation, enhancement in spatial domain, enhancement in
frequency domain (7 Lectures)
Color Image Processings:Color Representation, Laws of color matching, chromaticity diagram, color
enhancement, color image segmentation, color edge detection (3 Lectures)
Image compression: Lossy and lossless compression schemes, prediction based compression schemes,
vector quantization, sub-band encoding schemes, JPEG compression standard (4 Lectures)
Morphology:Dilation, erosion, opening, closing, hit and miss transform, thinning, extension to grayscale
morphology, Euler technique (5 Lectures)
Segmentation: Segmentation of grey level images, Watershed algorithm for segmenting grey level image
(6 Lectures)
Feature Detection:Fourier descriptors, shape features, object matching/features (6 Lectures)
Textbook
1. C. GONZALEZ, R.E. WOODS (2018), Digital Image Processing, Prentice Hall, 4th Edition.
2. A.K. JAIN (1989), Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing, Prentice Hall.
Reference Books
Research literature
Online Course Material
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117104020/
48
Course Title Speech Understanding Course No. CSLXxxx
Department EE Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Elective
Prerequisite PR-ML
Objectives
1. To provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms related to speech processing and
understanding
2. Impart working expertise by introducing practical problems.
Learning Outcomes
1. Building a speech recognition system
2. Design and implement basic speech based application
Contents
Introduction to Speech processing:Digitization and Recording of speech signal, Review of Digital Signal
Processing Concepts, Human Speech production, Acoustic Phonetics and Articulatory Phonetics, Different
categories speech sounds and Location of sounds in the acoustic waveform and spectrograms. (14 Lectures)
Speech recognition: Analysis and Synthesis of Pole-Zero Speech Models, Short-Time Fourier Transform,
Analysis:- FT view and Filtering view, Synthesis:-Filter bank summation (FBS) Method and OLA Method,
Features Extraction, Extraction of Fundamental frequency, Speech Enhancement, Clustering and Gaussian
Mixture models, Speaker Recognition.(14 Lectures)
Speech based applications:HMM and Neural models for speech recognition, Speech generation, Question
answering, Dialogue systems, Other Speech based Applications.(14 Lectures)
Text Books
1. T.F. QUATIERI (2002), Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing, Prentice-Hall, New Jersey.
2. D. JURAFSKY, J.H. MARTIN, Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language
Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition (3rd Edition Draft), 2019.
Reference Books
1. Y. GOLDBERG (2016), A Primer on Neural Network Models for Natural Language Processing, Journal
of Artificial Intelligence Research.
2. I. GOODFELLOW, Y. BENGIO, A. COURVILLE (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press, 1st Edition.
3. S.K. PATRA (2011), Digital Signal Processing: A Computer-Based Approach, McGraw-Hill, 4th Edition.
49
Title Statistical Inference and Simulation Techniques Number MAL4XXX
Department Mathematics L-T-P-D [C] 3–0–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background in the area of Statistics.
2. Provide sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by students for further applications in
their respective domains of interest.
3. Provide understanding of simulation techniques with applications
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Provide basic understanding of the Point and Interval Estimation, Testing of Hypotheses, Non-
parametric Estimation
2. Impart knowledge in Random Sampling, Unbiased Estimation, Bias-Variance Tradeoff, and Goodness of
Fit.
3. Apply simulation techniques in their domain of interest.
Contents
Review of Probability and Statistics [3 Lectures]: Sampling Distributions (Chi-square, t, F, Normal) and random
sampling
Parametric Estimation [10 Lectures]: Unbiasedness and Consistency, Sufficiency and Completeness, Minimum
Variance Unbiased Estimators, Method of Moments and Maximum Likelihood,
Testing of Hypothesis [8 Lectures]: Interval Estimation, Neyman Pearson Theory for Testing of Hypotheses,
Likelihood Ratio Test
Non-parametric Estimation [5 Lectures]: Bayesian Approach of Estimation, Non-parameteric Estimation, Sequential
Hypotheses Testing
Random Variate Generation [5 Lectures]: Random numbers, properties of random numbers, random number
generation, and random variate generation.
Simulation Techniques [8 Lectures]: Simulating a Two Dimensional Poisson Process, Multivariate Distribution,
Generating Variables from Copula Models
Markov Chain, Monte Carlo Methods [3 Lectures]
Textbooks
1. Rohatgi, V. K. (2003), Statistical Inference, Dover Publications Inc.
2. Hogg, R. V., McKean, J. W., Craig, A. T. (2009), Introduction to Mathematical Statistics, Pearson
3. Ross, S. M. (2013), Simulation, Academic Press, Elsevier.
Reference Book
1. Casella, G. and Berger, R. L. (1990), Statistical Inference, Brooks/ Cole Publishing Company
2. Rao, C. R. (2006), Linear Statistical Inference and Its Applications, Wiley
Online material:
Zhou Fan, Introduction to Statistical Inference, Stanford University,
http://web.stanford.edu/class/stats200/.
50
Title Introduction to Financial Engineering Number MA4XX
Department Mathematics L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for Type
Prerequisite Probability, Statistics and Random Processes
Objectives
1. Technical Analysis of Financial Data
2. Securities Pricing
3. Risk Management
4. Portfolio Optimization – Balancing risk and return
5. Modeling – Pricing of derivatives
Learning Outcomes
1. Understand the Market
2. Understanding Derivatives and Securities
3. Pricing and Valuation in Discrete Case
4. Using the Binomial Model for Option Pricing
Contents
Risk free Assets:Introduction to Financial Markets and Financial Instruments, Technical and
Fundamental Analysis, Time Value of Money, Different Compounding Periods, Bonds, Bond Pricing. (6
Lectures)
Mean Variance Theory:Risky Assets, Risk and Return, Mean Variance Analysis, Markowitz Theory for
Portfolio Optimization, Inclusion of Risk Free Asset, Capital Asset Pricing Model, Security Market Line.
(8 Lectures)
Derivative Securities: Spot and Forward Rates, Forward and Futures, Arbitrage Pricing Theory, Options
(call and put), European and American Options, Put-call parity, Binomial Tree, Discrete Time Models for
Option Pricing, Risk Neutral Probabilities, Option Greeks. (12 Lectures)
Exotic Options and Greeks: Pricing of American Options, Path Dependent and Other Exotic Options,
Option Greeks (Delta, Gamma, Vega, Sigma and Rho), Delta Hedging, Delta-Gamma Hedging. (6
Lectures)
Interest Rate Derivatives: Black Scholes Model, CRR Model, Interest Rate Models (Hull-White, Cox-
Ingersoll-Ross, Vasicek). (10 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. M. CAPINSKI, T. ZASTAWNIAK (2010). Mathematics for Finance: An Introduction to Financial
Engineering, Springer.
2. D.G. LUENBERGER (1998). Investment Science, Oxford University Press.
Reference Book
J.C. HULL, S. BASU (2014), Options, Futures and Other Derivatives, Pearson.
51
Title Introduction to Game Theory Number MAL4XXX
Department Maths L-T-P-D [C] 3–0–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
1. To provide basic understanding of Game Theory and its applications.
2. To equip the students with sufficient knowledge in Game theory which can be used by the students in
their respective fields.
Learning Outcomes
1. Understanding of basic of Non-cooperative games and Nash Equilibria
2. Understanding of Dual Simplex method and concept of Duality with applications to game theory.
3. Understanding of Nash Model with security point, stable strategies and Bayesian Games.
Contents
Game Trees, Choice Functions and Strategies, Choice Subtrees, Equilibrium N-tuples Strategies. (4 Lectures)
Normal Forms, Non-cooperative games, Nash Equilibrium and its computation, The von Neumann Minimax
Theorem, Mixed strategies, Best Response Strategies. (8 Lectures)
Matrix Games and Linear Programming, Simplex Algorithm, Avoiding cycles and Achieving Feasibility,
Dual-Simplex Algorithm, Duality Theorem. (10 Lectures)
2x2 Bimatrix Games, Nonlinear Programming Methods for Non-zero Sum Two-Person Games, Coalitions
and Characteristic Functions, Imputations and their Dominance. (4 Lectures)
The Core of a game, Strategic Equivalence, Stable Sets of Imputations, Shapley Values, N-Person Non-Zero
Sum Games with continuum of strategies – Duels, Auctions. (8 Lectures)
Nash Model with Security Point, Threats, Evolution, Stable Strategies, Population Games, Bayesian Games.
(8 Lectures)
Textbook
1. M. MASCHLER, E. SOLAN, S. ZAMIR (2013), Game Theory, Cambridge University Press.
2. M.J. OSBORNE, A. RUBINSTEIN (1994), A Course in Game Theory, The MIT Press.
Reference Book
P.D. STRAFFIN (Jr.) (1993), Game Theory and Strategy, The Mathematical Association of America.
Online Course Material
M.O. JACKSON, K.L. BROWN, Y. SHOHAM, Game Theory, Coursera Course Material:
https://www.coursera.org/learn/game-theory
52
Title Reliability Engineering and Life Testing Number MAXXX
Department Mathematics L-T-P [C] 3-0-0
Offered for B.Tech. Type Elective
Prerequisite Basic Probability & Statistics
Objectives
To understand the basic concepts of statistical reliability theory and their various real life applications.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the basic notion of systems, different reliability measures and different lifetime models
2. Understand the basic concepts of life testing and inference
3. Gain the ability to handle different issues in software reliability
Contents
Introduction:Importance of reliability, Definition of reliability and its measures, Concept of failure, Mean
time to failure. (2 Lectures)
System Reliability:Components and systems, Series, parallel, k-out-of-n system and their reliability block
diagrams; Coherent system, path sets and cut sets; Structural importance of components; Reliability of
coherent system with independent components; Reliability importance of components; Bounds on system
reliability. (7 Lectures)
Lifetime Models: Notion of aging, concept of hazard rate, reliability and mean residual life functions, IFR
and DFR class of life distributions; Bath-tub failure curve; Lifetime distributions: exponential, Weibull,
gamma, etc. (5 Lectures)
Redundancy, Load Sharing and Stress-Strength Models: Systems with hot, cold and warm standby
components; Reliability of shared load parallel system; Stress- strength models; Cumulative damage model,
Virtual age model. (6 Lectures)
Life Testing and Inference:Life testing, Complete data and censored data; Type-I, Type-II, hybrid and
random censoring schemes, Parametric inference based on complete and censored data using asymptotic
likelihood theory, Nonparametric estimate (Life table and Kaplan-Meier) of reliability; Graphical methods
(PP, QQ and TTT plots) and standard statistical tests for model validation, Life test acceptance sampling
plans in exponential case; Basic concept of accelerated life testing. (14 Lectures)
Software Reliability:The basic concept and definition, Difference between hardware and software
reliability, Jelinski-Moranda Model and some other relevant models, The problem of optimal release time,
Software Reliability predictions using artificial neural networks, Some recent models. (8 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. H. PHAM (2003), Handbook of Reliability Engineering, Springer.
2. J.V. DESHPANDE, S.G. PUROHIT (2005), Life Time Data: Statistical Models and Methods, World
Scientific, Singapore.
3. H. PHAM (2006), System Software Reliability, Springer-Verlag.
Reference Books
1. W.Q. MEEKER, L.A. ESCOBAR (1998), Statistical Methods for Reliability Data, John Wiley.
2. J.F. LAWLESS (2003), Statistical Models and Methods for Lifetime Data, John Wiley.
3. W. NELSON (1982), Applied Life Data Analysis, John Wiley.
4. R.E. BARLOW, F. PROSCHAN (1983), Statistical Theory of Reliability and Life Testing Probability
Models, Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
5. R.E. BARLOW, F. PROSCHAN (1965), Mathematical Theory of Reliability, John Wiley.
53
Title Stochastic Calculus for Finance Number MA4XX
Department Mathematics L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for Type
Prerequisite Probability, Statistics and Random Processes
Objectives
1. To develop an understanding of change of measure, Martingales and Brownian motion
2. To develop an understanding of Ito’s calculus with Stock Market applications
Learning Outcomes
1. Understanding Derivatives and Securities
2. Pricing and Valuation in Discrete Case
3. Ito’s Integral and Ito Process
4. Black Scholes Model
5. Various Interest Rate Models
Contents
Discrete Time Models: General probability spaces, Gaussian and log-normal distribution, filtration,
martingales and stopping times, Binomial model for option pricing, conditional expectation given a sigma
field, Brownian motion and its properties. (8 Lectures)
Continuous Time Models: Continuous approximation of Binomial model, Ito’s integral and martingales,
properties of Ito’s integral, continuous time financial market models, Geometric Brownian motion, Black-
Scholes-Merton model, Black-Scholes PDE and formulas. (10 Lectures)
Applications for Option Pricing: Risk-neutral valuation, option pricing, the Greeks, put-call parity, Risk-
neutral valuation, Girsanov's theorem for change of measure, martingale representation theorems,
representation of Brownian martingales. (10 Lectures)
Stochastic Differential Equation: Feynman-Kac formula and its applications, models with stochastic
volatility, pricing and hedging in incomplete markets, bond markets, term-structures of interest rates, bond
pricing, Short rate models, martingale models for short rate, Vasicek, Cox-Ingersoll-Ross and Hull-White
models. (14 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. S.E. SHREVE (2004), Stochastic Calculus for Finance I: The Binomial Asset Pricing Model, Springer-
Verlag.
2. S.E. SHREVE (2004), Stochastic Calculus for Finance II: Continuous-Time Model, Springer-verlag.
Reference books
F.C. KLEBNER (2005), Introduction to stochastic Calculus with Applications, Imperial College Press.
54
Title Time Series Analysis Number MA4XX
Department Mathematics L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for Type
Prerequisite Probability, Statistics and Random Processes
Objectives
1. To provide working knowledge of time series and forecasting methods
2. To provide with techniques and receipts for estimation and assessment of quality of economic models
with time series data
Learning Outcomes
To develop the skills needed to do empirical research in fields operating with time series data sets
Contents
Stationary Processes:Strong and weak, autocorrelation function, linear processes, estimation of mean and
covariance functions, Wold decomposition Theorem. (8 Lectures)
ARMA Models: ARMA (p, q) processes, ACF and PACF, Modeling using ARMA processes, estimation of
parameters, testing model adequacy, Order estimation. (8 Lectures)
Forecasting: Prediction in stationary processes, special reference to ARMA processes, Frequency domain
analysis – spectral density and its estimation, transfer functions. (8 Lectures)
Non-stationary Models: ARMAX, ARIMAX models and introduction to ARCH models. (10 Lectures)
Multivariate Time Series: Multivariate Time Series, State Space Models. (8 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. P.J. BLOCKWELL, R.A. DAVIS (2017), Introduction to Time Series and Forecasting, Springer, 2nd
Edition.
2. C. CHATFIELD (2004), The Analysis of Time Series – An Introduction, Chapman and Hall / CRC, 4th
Edition.
Reference book
G.E.P. BOX, G. JENKINS, G. REINSEL (1994), Time Series Analysis-Forecasting and Control, Pearson, 3rd
Edition.
Online Learning material
https:// ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-384-time-series-analysis-fall-2013/recitations/.
55
Course Title Differential Geometry Course No. MAL4XX0
Department Mathematics L-T-P-D [C] 3–0–0-0[3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite
Objectives
1. To introduce the fundamental concepts of differential geometry, In particular, focusing on the local and
global properties of curves and surfaces.
2. To learn major topics will include geodesics, parallel transport, curvature, isometries, the Gauss map and
the Gauss-Bonnet theorem.
Learning Outcomes
1. Understanding of concrete aspects of geometry, centered on the notion of curvatures.
2. Understanding of major theorems (with proofs), Gauss-Bonnet and Poincare-Hopf Index theorems.
Contents
Introduction [Lectures 8]: Graphs and level sets of functions on Euclidean spaces, vector fields, integral
curves of vector fields, tangent spaces.
Theory of Surfaces [Lectures 12]: Surfaces in Euclidean spaces, vector fields on surfaces, orientation, Gauss
map, Geodesics, parallel transport, Weingarten map.
Intrinsic Geometry of Surfaces [Lectures 14]: Curvature of plane curves, arc length and line integrals,
Curvature of surfaces. Parametrized surfaces, local equivalence of surfaces and Gauss-Bonnet Theorem.
Applications [Lectures 8]: Manifold learning methods applied to data, Network curvature metrics (discrete
Ricci curvature and flow), discrete exterior calculus for animation/computer vision, conformal mapping
of image data (particularly medical images with Yamabe flow/Ricci flow), data representation in
Teichmuller space (particularly video and image data), and machine learning on Riemannian manifolds.
Textbooks
1. M.P. de Carmo (2017), Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces, Dover Publications, 2nd Edition.
2. M. Spivak (2005), A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry, Publish or Perish Inc., 3rd
Edition.
3. J.A. THORPE (1979), Elementary Topics in Differential Geometry, Springer.
Reference Books
1. J.J. STOKER (1988), Differential Geometry, Wiley.
2. T.F. BANCHOFF, ST. LOVETT (2015), Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces, Chapman and
Hall/CRC, 2nd Edition.
3. A.N. PRESSLEY (2010), Elementary Differential Geometry, Springer, 2nd Edition.
56
Course Title Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Course No. MAL4XX0
Department Mathematics L-T-P-D [C] 3–0–0-0[3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite
Objectives
1. To introduce the concept of linear and nonlinear dynamical systems.
2. To learn the basic concepts in dynamical systems, like, evolution of system, fixed points, periodic
points, attractors, bifurcation process and stability of the systems.
3. To understand the nonlinearity in nature and nonlinear models which are present in other areas:
Physics, Biology, Chemistry and Engineering.
4. Use Matlab or Mathematics for solving dissipative dynamical systems, which are relevant for
engineering models.
Learning Outcomes
1. Construction of phase portraits of linear and nonlinear system and describe the stability of the system.
2. Identification of attractors, like, fixed points, periodic attractors, Cantor set, Chaotic attractors.
3. Understanding the different bifurcations, like, saddle node, transcritical and period doubling etc.
4. Analyzing the dynamics of the system, when the parameter varies.
Contents
One-Dimensional Flows [Lectures 8]: Flows on the Line, Bifurcations, Flows on the Circles.
Two-Dimensional Flows [Lectures 12]: Linear systems and stability, Phase space analysis, Vector field of
nonlinear system and stability analysis, Limit Cycles, Saddle-node, Transcritical, Pitchfork bifurcations,
and Hopf Bifurcations.
Chaos [Lectures 15]: Lorenz equations, Chaos, Iterated maps, One-Dimensional Maps, period doubling
bifurcation, Cantor set, Fractals and strange attractors.
Applications [Lectures 7]: Mechanical vibrations, lasers, biological rhythms, superconducting circuits,
insect outbreaks, chemical oscillators, genetic control, systems, chaotic waterwheels, and using chaos to
send secret messages.
Textbook
Steaven, S., Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering,
1st Ed., Levant Books, 2007
Reference Books
1. Alligood K., Sauer, T., and Yorke, J., Chaos: An Introduction to Dynamical Systems, Second Edition,
Springer, 2008
2. Stephen Wiggins, Introduction to Applied Nonlinear Dynamical Systems and Chaos, 2nd Edition, Spriger.
Online course Material
Banerjee S., IIT Kharagpur, NPTEL Course on “Chaos, Fractals and Dynamic
Systems”,https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108105054/
57
Course Title Artificial Intelligence in Transportation Course No. CS6XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Pre-requisites Computer Networks
Objectives
1. The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the applications of AI in
transportation systems.
2. The course would have a Computer Science flavor to transportation rather than Civil engineering
perspective.
Learning Outcomes
At the end of this course, students would be able to appreciate the tremendous AI-driven impact on
transportation systems worldwide.
Contents
Traffic flow basics (3 Lectures)
Continuum models of traffic flow(4 Lectures)
Traffic modeling and control of freeways (3 Lectures)
Network-level traffic management (4 Lectures)
Control of traffic signals (4 Lectures)
ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems) applications and case studies (4 Lectures)
Sensor technologies and data requirements of ITS(3 Lectures)
Overview of Autonomous Systems (4 Lectures)
Driverless Vehicles (3 Lectures)
Vehicular localization techniques (3 Lectures)
Future trends in transportation systems (3 Lectures)
Paper discussions (flipped mode) (4 Lectures)
Note:
Please note that the course material would not be taken from a single book or resource. It would be a
combination of textbook material, research papers, and other sources.
Textbooks:
1. Alam, M., Ferreira, J., & Fonseca, J. (2016). Introduction to intelligent transportation systems. In
Intelligent Transportation Systems (pp. 1-17). Springer, Cham.
2. Lipson, H., &Kurman, M. (2016). Driverless: Intelligent Cars and the road ahead. MIT Press.
Reference Books:
1. Chowdhury, M. A., &Sadek, A. W. (2003). Fundamentals of intelligent transportation systems
planning. Artech House.
2. Recent relevant RFCs, Internet drafts, selected research papers from relevant venues: Mobicom,
MobiSys, SIGCOMM, Infocom, IEEE TMC, ACM MC2R.
Self-learning Material:
1. https://www.edx.org/course/intro-to-traffic-flow-modeling-and-intelligent-tra
2. Relevant research papers.
58
Title Introduction to Industry 4.0 Course No. AIDSLXXX
Department AI & DS, ME Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech (AI & DS) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Antirequisite OS, CN
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an understanding of the fundamentals of operating systems and networking
2. Explain the transformation of industrial processes through the integration of modern technologies
such as sensors, communication, and computational processing
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
Apply technology in industries to modify the various existing industrial systems
Contents
Introduction: Introduction: Sensing & actuation, Communication and Networking, Globalization and
Emerging Issues, The Fourth Revolution, LEAN Production Systems, Smart and Connected Business
Perspective, Smart Factories (7 Lectures)
Industry 4.0: Cyber-Physical Systems and Next Generation Sensors, Collaborative Platform and
Product
Security: Cybersecurity in Industry 4.0, Basics of Industrial IoT: Industrial Processes, Industrial
Sensing & Actuation, Industrial Internet Systems.
Industrial IoT: Introduction, Industrial IoT, Business Model, Reference Architecture, IIoT-Business
Models, IIoT Sensing, IIoT Processing, Security and Fog Computing: Cloud Computing in IIoT
Data Analytics: Big Data Analytics and Software Defined Networks: IIoT Analytics - Introduction,
Machine Learning, and Data Science, Data Management with Hadoop
Case Study: Application in the areas: Factories and Assembly Line, Food Industry, Healthcare, Power
Plants, Inventory Management & Quality Control, Plant Safety and Security (Including AR and VR
safety applications), Facility Management, Oil, chemical and pharmaceutical industry, Applications of
UAVs in Industries, Real case studies.
Text Books
A. Gilchrist (2016), Industry 4.0: The Industrial Internet of Things, APresss.
Reference Books
S.Jeschke, C. Brecher, H. Song, D. B. Rawat (2017), Industrial Internet of Things: Cyber
Manufacturing Systems, Springer Series in Wireless Technology.
Online Material
NPTEL Lectures, Introduction to Industry 4.0: Industrial Internet of Things,
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105195/
59
Title Visual Computing Lab Number CSE/EE XXX
Department CSE, EE, ME L-T-P [C] 0–0–4 [2]
Offered for BTech. CSE, AIDE, EE, ME Type Specialization Core
Prerequisite
Objectives
The Instructor will introduce students to the importance of human centered visual computing.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to design applications that explicitly consider human
perception.
Contents
Sensing Devices: Concept of dynamic range, HDR displays, Event Based Camera, Time of Flight Camera,
Coded Apertures, LIDAR, 3D Reconstruction, Kinect Scanner, Laser Scanner (4 weeks)
Mini-project in Recognition (2 weeks)
Mini-project in Navigation (2 weeks)
Mini-project in Action (2 weeks)
Mini-project in Mixed Reality (2 weeks)
Mini-project in Trustable Decision (2 weeks)
Textbooks
Szeliski, R. (2010). Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications. Springer-Verlag New York Inc. Available
Online.
Reinhard, E., Heidrich, W., Debevec, P., Pattanaik, S., Ward, G., &Myszkowski, K. (2010). High Dynamic
Range Imaging: Acquisition, Display, and Image-based Lighting. 2nd Edition. Morgan Kaufmann.
Self Learning Material
Prof.Ioannis (Yannis) Gkioulekas, Computational Photography, Carnegie Mellon
University,http://graphics.cs.cmu.edu/courses/15-463/
Prof. Silvio Savarese, Computer Vision, From 3D Reconstruction to Recognition, Stanford
University,http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs231a/
Preparatory Course Material:
Prof. Gilbert Strang, Linear Algebra and Learning from Data, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology,https://math.mit.edu/~gs/learningfromdata/
60
Title Bio-Imaging Number
Department CS, AIDE, EE L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for Type Elective
Prerequisite
Objectives
The Instructor will:
The Instructor will provide an overview of different imaging modalities.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have ability to:
1. The students will have the ability to choose appropriate imaging modality to visualize
biological samples.
2. The students will be able to interpret and analyse the images in a quantitative way.
Contents
Introduction to Bio-imaging [1 lecture], Light microscopy [1 Lectures], Basic configuration of modern light
microscopes [3 Lectures], Fluorescence and fluorescence microscopy [3 Lectures], Super-resolution light
microscopy [1 Lectures], 3D imaging techniques in microscopy: confocals and mesoscopic techniques [3]
Total: 12 lectures
Transmission Electron Microscopy - principles [6 Lectures], Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) [4 Lectures]
Total: 10 lectures
Digital Imaging In Biology; Image acquisition devices: CCDs vs CMOS cameras; High-speed & time-lapse
acquisition, Thermography, UV, Gamma & X-ray cameras
Total: 6 lectures
Medical imaging: Principles, instrumentation and applications of X-ray [3 Lectures], Computed Tomography
[3 Lectures], PET and Ultrasonography [4 Lectures], MRI, and fMRI [4 Lectures].
Total: 14 lectures
Text Books
1. Murphy (2001) Fundamentals of light microscopy and electronic imaging. John Willey & Sons.
2. Pawley (2006) Handbook of Biological Confocal Microscopy. 3rd ed. Springer.
Self-Learning Material
Bioimaging by Prof. Lu Lei at NTU Singapore:
http://www.sbs.ntu.edu.sg/prospective/undergraduate/Curriculum%20and%20Course%20Descriptions/Pag
es/Major-PE/Table%20A/BS2010.aspx
61
Title Medical Image Analysis Number
Department CS, AIDE, EE L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for Type Elective
Prerequisite Fundamental knowledge of Digital Image
Processing or Computer Vision, Machine
Learning/PRML, Deep Learning
Objectives
The Instructor will provide an in-depth understanding of classical and machine learning based
techniques for medical image analysis.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have ability to:
1. interpret and analyse the images in a quantitative way.
2. apply the learned techniques for novel disease diagnosis and prognosis.
Contents
Classical Approaches: [1-0-0]
Introduction to image processing and medical imaging modalities, denoising and enhancement [4 Lectures]
Tissue and Cell Segmentation: clustering, active contours and level sets based approaches [5 Lectures]
Medical Image alignment: rigid and deformable registration [5 Lectures]
Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches: (2-0-0)
Fundus Image analysis, Retinal Vessel Segmentation [4 Lectures]
MRI image analysis and segmentation, 3D brain reconstruction from and MRI slices and analysis [5
Lectures]
Microscopic image analysis and interpretation [5 Lectures]
Ultrasonography image analysis [4 Lectures]
X-Ray and CT image segmentation, diagnosis and prognosis of various diseases [5 Lectures]
Correlation between different medical imaging modalities and conversions, augmenting clinical
measurements with medical imaging modalities for diseases diagnosis and prognosis [5 Lectures]
Text Books
1. Prince, J. L., & Links, J. M. (2006). Medical imaging signals and systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson
Prentice Hall.
2. Suetens, P. (2017). Fundamentals of medical imaging. Cambridge university press.
Self-Learning Material:
Medical Image Processing by Prof. Jeff Orchard at University of Waterloo:
https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/~jorchard/cs473/CS473/Welcome.html
62
1. Introduction
Traditional curriculum in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) has focused on two major areas, i.e., theory
and systems (database, computer hardware, and operating systems). With the advent of the era of Edge
Computing, Cloud Computing, Security, AI and Big Data, the discipline is being transformed by the
incorporation of new emerging technologies. The discipline is becoming instrumental in solving major real-world
problems faced by modern society such as healthcare, security, sustainability, and socio-economic challenges.
There is a need to revamp the B.Tech program in CSE so as to prepare students to tackle problems which are
fundamentally multidisciplinary in nature. This would improve IIT Jodhpur’s participation and contribution
towards providing solutions for global challenges. IIT Jodhpur can become a leading source of technology
solutions for self-reliant India.
2. Objectives of the Program
The objective of the B.Tech. program in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at IIT Jodhpur is to equip
students to undertake careers involving challenges of working on real-world problems, while innovating with
their core competency in computer science. The curriculum gives due importance to the foundational aspects of
computer science, as well as develops in students the necessary engineering skills for addressing emerging
technological challenges. The program offers flexibility in choosing elective courses for widening the
understanding of emerging concepts and processes in different domains. Students can opt for specializations
which provide a coherent and increasingly sophisticated understanding so as to enable them to pursue preferred
career opportunities. The program will produce a well prepared and well-motivated workforce to undertake
careers in research and industry involving innovation, knowledge creation, engineering, and entrepreneurship.
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this program, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1. Apply appropriate knowledge in Computer Science and Engineering to identify, formulate, analyze, and solve
complex engineering problems in order to reach substantive conclusions.
2. Self-learn and engage in use of advanced computing tools.
3. Develop sustainable computing solutions in broader economic, societal and environmental contexts.
4. Think critically, creatively and analytically as a computer scientist, whilst being able to work effectively,
independently and collaboratively as part of a team in research, technology development and entrepreneurial
ventures.
5. Apply evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
6. Effectively communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers in written or oral forms.
7. Be motivated to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of evolving technological
challenges.
4. Learning Outcomes
The student will have the ability to:
1. Abstract out computational models based on mathematical rigor.
2. Critically analyse and appreciate emerging and applied fields of computer science owing to deeper
understanding and strong foundations in theoretical computer science.
3. Develop robust, secure, and efficient software systems that would involve software engineering, data
structures, and algorithm design paradigms.
4. Apply different concepts including digital design, computer architecture, operating systems, databases,
networking, and applications for building solutions for real-world problems.
5. Design and implement smart, intelligent, and user friendly interfaces for computer applications.
6. Analyse, design, develop and deploy computer based systems in collaboration with domain experts for
meeting societal needs in areas such as healthcare, safety, environment, law enforcement, transportation, etc.,
by exploiting tools and techniques of Big data, AI and project management.
7. Become proficient in some of the specialized areas such as Computer Vision, Augmented Reality, Internet of
Things, Natural Language Understanding, and Intelligent Communication.
1
8. Communicate effectively by comprehending, documenting, making effective presentations and exchanging
clear instructions.
5. New Skill Sets Targeted
1. Designing user-centric human-machine interfaces
2. Designing end-to-end socio-digital reality systems
3. Developing sustainable computing solutions
4. Building secure, intelligent, and trustable systems
5. Designing and synthesizing digital systems for solving industrial problems
6. Topic Clouds and Mapping of Topic Clouds with Proposed Courses
Table 1. Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
Area Topics Category Course (IE/IS/
(Core/ PC/PE)
Techniques
Technology/
Systems)
Theory Computing Paradigms, Syntax, Semantics Specification, Core Principles of
and Attribute Grammar, Imperative Programming, Procedures, Programming
Algorithms Modules, Object-oriented Programming, Abstraction, Languages
Encapsulation, Reuse, Functional Programming, Polymorphic (PC)
Data Types, Recursion, Lambda Calculus, Logic Programming,
Horn Clauses, Backtracking, Concurrent Programming,
Synchronization, Multithreads
Abstract Data Types, Linear Data Structures, Non Linear Data Core Data
Structures, Stack, Queue, Link List, Heap, Sorting, Hashing, Structures and
Algorithm Analysis, Graph, Tree Algorithms
(PC)
Complexity Analysis, Divide-and-conquer, Greedy Core Design and
Algorithms, Dynamic Programming, Linear Programming, Analysis of
Universal Hashing, Approximation Algorithms, Randomized Algorithms
Algorithms (PC)
Discrete Structures, Logics, Set, Graph and Trees, Deterministic Core Maths for
Finite Automata, Non-deterministic Finite Automata, Computing
PushDown Automata, Context Free Grammar, Turing (PC)
Machine, Lexical and Syntax Analysis, Parsing
Computability, Decision Trees and Communication Core Theory of
Complexity, Time Complexity, Space Complexity, Complexity Computation
of Counting and Randomization (PE)
Graph algorithms, Directed and Undirected graph, Planar Core Graph
graph, Graph coloring, Hamiltonion and Eulorian graph, Theoretic
Bipartite graphs, Trees. Algorithms
(PC Bouquet)
NP-Hard problems, Bounded Search Tree, Iterative Core Parameterized
Compression, Randomized Methods, Kernelization, Sunflower Complexity
Lemma, Crown Decomposition, Expansion Lemma, (PC Bouquet)
Intractability
2
Persistence DS, Retroactive DS, Geometric DS, DS for Moving Core and Advanced
Data, Dynamic Optimality, Cache-oblivious DS, van Emde Techniques Data
Boas, Sketching, String DS, Low Memory DS, Dynamic Graphs Structures (PE)
Euclidean TSP, Metric TSP, FPTAS, PTAS, Primal-Dual Techniques Approximatio
Schema, Dual Fitting, Embeddings, Sparsest Cut, Random n Algorithms
Hyperplanes, Hashing, Makespan (PE)
Randomized Complexity Classes, Probabilistic Analysis, Techniques Randomized
Markov Chain, Random Walk, Randomized Graph Algorithms
Algorithms, Randomized Sorting and Searching, Markov, (PE)
Chebyshev, Chernoff
Computational Model and Complexity Classes, NP, NP Core Complexity
Completeness, Complexity Issues in Cryptography, Lower Theory (PE)
Bounds, Algebraic Computational Model, Levin’s Theory,
Hardness Amplification, Logic in complexity theory, Circuit
Lower Bounds
Complex Numbers, Complex Vector Spaces, Quantum Core Quantum
Algorithms, Quantum Programming Languages, Quantum Computing
Cryptography, Quantum Information Theory, Deutsch’s (PE)
Algorithm, Simon’s Periodicity Algorithm, Grover’s Search
Algorithm, The Deutsch–Jozsa Algorithm, Shor’s Factoring
Algorithm, Quantum Assembly Programming, Quantum Key
Exchange, Quantum Teleportation, von Neumann Entropy
Streaming Algorithms, Stream mining using Clustering, Core and Stream
Massive Data Clustering, Data Stream Classification, Technique Analytics (PE)
Distributed Mining of Streaming Data, Change Diagnosis,
Forecasting on Stream, Dimensionality Reduction for
Streaming data.
Hardware Introduction to HDL, Design flow, Number representation, Core Digital Design
Arithmetic circuits, Design and Analysis of Synchronous (PC)
circuits, Design of Finite State Machines, CMOS Technology,
Programmable Logic Devices, CAD
CPU, Memory, Processor, Instruction set Architecture, I/O, Core Computer
ALU, Bus Architecture, Cache management, Performance Architecture
(PC)
Embedded system design, Architectures of embedded Systems Embedded
processors, Hardware-Software Co-design, ARM Cortex M3, Systems (PC
Programming for Embedded Systems, Real time OS, Bouquet)
Distributed Embedded Architectures, Real time scheduling
algorithms, Multi-rate systems
VLSI design flow, hardware modelling principles, hardware Technique High-level
description, Behavioural synthesis, logic optimization and Synthesis (PE)
synthesis, Chip architectures, standard cells and FPGA,
Synthesis tools, layout synthesis
3
Systems Processes Management, Process Coordination, Deadlock, Core Operating
Memory Management, Storage Management, Protection and Systems (PC)
Security
Database Architectures, Data Granularity, ER Model, EER Core Database
Model, Relational Model, Relational Algebra, Relational Systems (PC)
Calculus, SQL, Schema, Query, Data Definition, Data
Manipulation, Data Retrieval, Views, Normalization,
Functional Dependency, Transactions, Schedules, ACID
Properties, Concurrency Control, Recoverability,
Serializability, Deadlock Prevention, Locking Protocols,
Timestamp Protocols, Deadlock Detection, Recovery Protocols,
Query Optimization, Hashing, Indexing
Software Development Life Cycle, Software Engineering Core Software
Process Model, Software Design, UML, Design Pattern, Project Engineering
Management, Cost Analysis, UI Design, Service Oriented (PC)
Architecture, Software Quality, Risk Analysis, Agile
Methodologies, Software Architecture
Software Testing, Quality Engineering, Testing Process, Techniques Software
Automatic Testing, Unit Testing, Defect Prevention, Process Testing and
Improvement, Quantifiable Quality Improvement, Quality Quality
Model and Measurements, Defect Classification, Reliability Assurance (PE)
Engineering
Distributed Systems, Centralized Systems, Data Transparency, Systems Distributed
Data Fragmentation, Data Allocation, Security, Semantic Database
Integrity, Query Decomposition, Query Localization, Query Systems (PE)
Ordering, Query Optimization, Transaction Management,
Concurrency Control, Deadlock Management, Reliability,
Recovery Protocols
Fog Computing, Internet of Things and Analytics, Edge Systems Edge and Fog
Computing, Distributed computing and system design, Computing
architecture, contemporary cloud framework, distributed data (PE)
& processing management, middleware design issues and
challenges, Edge & Fog for AI-driven applications
Concurrency, events & ordering, distributed file systems, Systems Distributed
distributed disk management, fault tolerance, microkernel, Systems (PE)
operating system kernel
Understanding Software & Evolution, Software Maintenance, Systems Software
Software Reuse, Reverse engineering levels & techniques Maintenance
(PE)
Network Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards, Core Cyber Security
and Securing Web Application, Services and Servers, Intrusion (PC)
Security Detection and Prevention, Firewalls, Cyberspace and the Law,
Cyber Forensics
OSI reference model, Packet switching techniques, Core Computer
Performance metrics, Socket programming, Email, FTP, Telnet, Networks (PC)
SSH, DNS, TCP, UDP, Transmission, Flow and Congestion
Control, Tunneling, Internet Protocol and its operation,
Routing algorithms, ICMP, ARP, RARP, DHCP, IPv6, RIP,
4
OSPF, Advanced Internetworking, Multicast routing, framing,
medium access mechanism, Public key and private key
cryptography, Firewalls, SDN Overview.
Overview about MANETs, VANETs, WSNs and WMNs, Systems Introduction to
Modulation techniques at PHY layer, Fading mitigation Wireless Ad
techniques, MAC protocols for MANETs, Error correcting hoc Network
codes, distributed wireless routing algorithms, transport level (PE)
mobility management, 5G overview, LPWAN, Bluetooth
Digital Trust, Digital Asset, Digital Transactions, Distributed Technology Introduction to
Ledger Technology, Digital Signature, Cryptocurrency, Blockchain
Bitcoin, Hyperledger, Ethereum Interaction, Blockchain-as-a- (PE)
service, Blockchain Use Cases, Blockchain Security
Cooperative Vehicular Safety Applications, Vehicular Systems Vehicular Ad-
Mobility Modeling, Physical Layer Considerations for Hoc Networks
Vehicular Communications, MAC Layer of Vehicular (PE)
Communication Networks, VANET Routing protocols,
Emerging VANET Applications, Standards and Regulations
Overview of wireless systems, Multiplexing, Link adaptation, Technology Mobile and
Multihop routing protocols, Mobility and Handoff Pervasive
management, Cellular Technologies, Overview of LTE and 5G Computing
Cellular Networks, 5G Architecture, RAN and dynamic (PE)
CRAN, Mobility management and Network slicing in 5G,
Pervasive computing, Context aware sensor networks,
Localization, Android architecture and Overview, Body area
networks
4G LTE networks, From 4G to 5G, 5G overview, core, Technology 5G Mobile
signalling, 5G mobile edge and fog computing, application, 5G Networks (PE)
vs mm-wave WiFi, India’s 5G policy and vision, 6G vision,
paper discussions
Networking basics, switching architecture, SDN architectures, Core Software
OpenFlow, Network function virtualization, Emerging SDN Defined
models, Data center networking Networks (PE)
Basic symmetric-key encryption, Message integrity, Public key Core Cryptography
cryptography, Digital signatures ,Protocols and Network
security (PE)
Bayes Decision Theory, Regression, Bias variance, Maximum Core and Pattern
Applicatio Likelihood Estimation, Bayesian Parameter Estimation, Technique Recognition
ns Decision Tree, Random Forest, Artificial Neural Network, and Machine
Clustering, k-means, SVM, Feature Selection, Dimensionality Learning (PC)
Reduction
Uninformed Search Strategies, Informed Search Strategies, Technique Artificial
Local Search Algorithms, Hill Climbing, Constraint Intelligence
Satisfaction Problems, Backtracking, Adversarial Search, Min- (PE)
Max algorithms, Propositional Logic, Reasoning Patterns,
First-order logic, Syntax, Semantics, Q-value, Policy,
5
Search Engine Architecture, Retrieval Models, Performance Techniques Information
Evaluation, Text Categorization, Text Clustering, Web Retrieval (PE)
Information Retrieval, Structured Document Retrieval
Visual World, Geometry, Lights and Optics, Tracking, Technique Introduction to
Motion, Depth, Devices and tools AR and VR
(PE)
Geometric primitives, Clipping, Viewing, Rendering, Technique Computer
Animation, Shading, Coloring, OpenGL Graphics (PE)
Eye and early vision, Reasoning systems, Late vision, visual Technique Principles of
attention, Cognitive architectures, Knowledge representation Biological
and learning, Neural networks for vision, Applications in Vision and
vision tasks Applications
(PE)
Image formation and transformations, Camera calibration, Technique Computer
Image restoration, Spatial and Wavelet-based processing, Vision (PE)
Epipolar Geometry, SfM, Optical flow, Key-point detection,
Feature description and matching, Deep learning for vision,
Applications
Data storage methods, data access methods, analysis, Technique Data
representation, visualization, visual storytelling, Dashboard, Visualization
Infographics (PE)
Neural Networks, Gradient Descent, Optimization, Technique Deep Learning
Regularization, Autoencoder, Convolutional Neural Network, (PE)
Recurrent Neural Network, LSTM, Deep Generative Models,
Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), Deep Belief Network,
Deep Convolutional GAN, Variational Autoencoder,
Representation Learning, Unsupervised Pre-training, Transfer
Learning, Distributed Representation, Domain Adaptation,
Neural Language Model, Adversarial Learning
Kernel Machines, Variants of Support Vector Machines, PAC Core and Advanced
Theory, Boosting, Graphical Models, Structural Predictions, Technique Machine
Deep Reinforcement Learning, Space Coding Learning (PE)
Decision-making, Utility Theory, Utility Functions, Decision Core Advanced
Networks, Sequential Decision Problems, Partially Observable Artificial
MDP, Game Theory, Reinforcement Learning, Generalization, Intelligence
Policy Search, Hidden Markov Model, Kalman Filter, (PE)
Knowledge Representation, Ontological Engineering,
Situation Calculus, Semantic Networks, Description Logic,
Planning graphs, Partial-order Planning, Conditional
Planning, Continuous Planning, Multi-agent Planning,
Hierarchical Task Network Planning, Non-deterministic
Domains
Neuromorphic Engineering, Neuroanatomy of human brain, Technique Neuromorphic
Neuron models, Plasticity rules, Learning rules, Spiking Design and
Neural Networks (SNN), Nanodevices for Neuron Computing
Implementation, Synaptic emulation, Electronic synapses, (PE)
Digital/Analog neuromorphic VLSI, Hardware
implementation of synaptic circuits, Synaptic programming
6
Accuracy-explainability tradeoff, Interpretability problem, Technique Dependable
Predictability, Transparency, Traceability, Causality, Artificial
Reasoning, Attention and Saliency, Interpretable AI, Prediction Intelligence
Consistency, Adversarial Robustness, Trustworthy AI, (PE)
Integrity, Reproducibility, Accountability, Bias-free AI, Ethics
in AI
Fuzzy Computing, Fuzzy Systems, Neural Computing, Genetic Technique Soft
Algorithms, Rough Sets, Knowledge Representations, Computing
Fuzzification, Defuzzification, Swarm Intelligence, Hybrid Techniques
Models, Neuro-fuzzy systems, Rough-neural computing (PE)
Biological Signals, Biomedical Imaging Modalities, ECG, NMR Technique Bio-image
spectroscopy, electron microscopy, MRI, and X-Ray Images, Computing
Visualization, Reconstruction, Restoration, Clustering, Graph (PE)
Partitioning, Deep Learning for Bio-image
Biometric Devices, Biometric System Design, Biometric Data Technique Advanced
Analysis, Face Recognition, Fingerprint Matching, Signature Biometrics
Authentication, Biometric (PE)
Computational complexity of AI models, Prediction accuracy, Systems and Resource-
Numeric accuracy, Precision, Memory footprints, Edge AI, Technique Constrained
Memory Optimization of Models, Hardware accelerators for Artificial
Edge AI, Vision Processing Unit, Streaming Hybrid Intelligence
Architecture Vector Engine, Open Neural Network Exchange (PE)
Word representation, NLP tasks, Seq2Seq model, Question Technique Natural
Answering, Sentiment Analysis, Dialogue system, Machine Language
Translation, natural language generation Interpretability, Understanding
Knowledge Graphs. (PE)
Spoken language technology, dialog and conversational Techniques Speech
systems, automatic speech recognition, speech synthesis, affect Understanding
detection, dialogue management. (PE)
Graphs, Network Models, Network Data Generation, Technique Social
Structural Properties, Link Prediction, Community Detection, Networks (PE)
Information Cascade, Small World Phenomenon, Homophily,
Structural Balance, Components, Network Evolution, Multi-
layer network
7
7. Course Categories, Credit Distribution and Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 2. Proposed Course Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. Programmes
S.N Course Type Course Category Regular B.Tech. Double
. B.Tech.
Credit Total Credit Total
1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34 69 34 59
Science (IS) 16 16
Humanities (IH) 12 9
2 Programme Linked Science (LS) 7 0
(L)
3 Programme Core (P) Programme Compulsory (PC) 51 71 51 71
Programme Electives (PE) 17 17
B.Tech. Project (PP) 3 3
4 Open (O) Open Electives (OE) 10 10 0 0
5 Engineering Science Engineering Science Core (EC) 0 0 22 22
(E)
Engineering Science Elective (EE) 0 0 8 8
Total Graded 150 160
6 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6 15 6 15
Engineering (NE) 3 3
Design/Practical Experience (ND) 6 6
Total Graded + Non-Graded 165 175
8
8. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 3. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes (Up 6000 Level)
Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Total Credits
hours (TC=TH/3)
Contact Hours Beyond Contact Total Hours
(CH) Hours (BCH) (TH)
1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 hr 2 hr 3 hr 1
1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 hr 2 hr 3hr 1
1 hour of Lab/Project 0-0-1 1 hr 0.5 hr 1.5 hr 0.5
#Contact hour for a project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
9
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 4. Programme Compulsory Courses
Sr. No Course Name LTP Contact Hours Credit
1 Data Structure and Algorithms 3-0-2 5 4
2 Maths for Computing 3-1-0 4 4
3 Digital Design 2-0-2 4 3
4 Human-Machine Interaction 0-0-4 4 2
5 Software Engineering 3-0-2 5 4
6 Operating Systems 3-0-2 5 4
7 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3-1-0 4 4
8 Computer Architecture 3-0-0 3 3
9 Database Systems 3-0-2 5 4
10 Cyber Security 3-0-2 5 4
11 Computer Networks 3-0-3 5 4.5
12 Digital Systems LAB 0-0-3 3 1.5
13 Principles of Programming Languages 3-0-0 3 3
14a Randomized Algorithms (B1) 3-0-0 3 3
14b Approximation Algorithms (B1) 3-0-0 3 3
14c Distributed Algorithms (B1) 3-0-0 3 3
14d Optimization (B1) 3-0-2 5 4
15a VLSI Design (B2) 3-0-0 3 3
15b High-Level Synthesis (B2) 3-0-0 3 3
15c Embedded Systems (B2) 3-0-0 3 3
Total 51/52
10
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 5. Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
S. No. Stream Courses L-T-P
1 Theory and 1. Randomized Algorithms (700) 3-0-0
Algorithms 2. Approximation Algorithms (700)
3. Complexity Theory (400)
4. Advanced Data Structures (400)
5. Quantum Computing (400)
6. Graph-theoretic Algorithms (700)
7. Parameterized Complexity (700)
8. Optimization (Math) (400)
2 Hardware 1. High-level Synthesis (EE/CS)(700) 3-0-0
2. Embedded Systems (EE)
3. VLSI Design (EE)
4. Hardware Software Co-Design (CS) (700)
3 Systems 1. Software Testing and Quality Assurance (700) 3-0-0
2. Distributed Database Systems (700)
3. Distributed Systems (2-0-0) (400)
4. Mobile and Pervasive Computing (700)
5. Virtualization and Cloud Computing (700)
6. Compiler Design (700)
7. Software Maintenance (400) 2-0-2
4 Network and 1. Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc Network (700) 3-0-0
Security 2. 5G Mobile Networks(CS)(700)
3. Software Defined Networks (CS)(700) 2-0-0
4. Intelligent Radio Networks (EE) (700)
3-0-2
5. Data Communication Networks (EE) (300)
6. Cryptography and Network Security (CS/EE) (400)
7. Introduction to Blockchain (700)
5 AI-ML 1. Deep Learning (400) 3-0-0
2. Artificial Intelligence (400)
3. Advanced Machine Learning
4. Dependable Artificial Intelligence (400)
5. Information Retrieval (700)
6. Autonomous Systems (IDRP) (400)
7. Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulation in AI (700)
8. Planning and Decision making for Robots
(IDRP)(700)
6 Speech,Text, 1. Natural Language Understanding (700) 3-0-0
and Vision 2. Digital Image Processing (400)
3. Computer Vision (400)
4. Computer Graphics (400)
5. Speech Understanding (700)
11
7 Social 1. Social Computing 3-0-0
Computing 2. Sustainable Computing 3-0-0
3. ICT for Development 2-0-0
4. Machine Learning for Epidemiology 3-0-0
5. Health Informatics 3-0-0
6. Computational Social Choice 3-0-0
7. Computational Cognition & Behavior Modelling 3-0-0
8. Social Networks 3-0-0
9. Ethics, policy, law and regulations in AI 0-0-2
10. Crowd-sourcing and human computing 3-0-0
11. Environmental Informatics 3-0-0
12. Computational Microeconomics 3-0-0
12
11. Specializations Offered by the Department
Table 6. Specializations and courses
Name of Specialization Core (8
S. No. Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
Specialization Credits)
Visual Computing
1. Jointly with EE and AIDE Jointly with EE and AIDE
(CSE, AIDE, EE)
Socio-Digital Reality
2. Jointly with EE and AIDE Jointly with EE and AIDE
(CS, AIDE, EE)
Randomized Algorithms, Approximation
Advanced Data Structures Algorithms, Theory of Computation,
Advanced (3-0-0), Complexity Theory Distributed Algorithms, Quantum
3.
Algorithms (3-0-0), Algorithms for Big Computing (IDRP), Optimization, Graph
Data (from M.Tech, 2-0-0) Theory and Applications, Parameterized
Complexity
Machine Learning for Epidemiology (3-0-
0), Health Informatics (3-0-0),
Computational Social Choice (3-0-0),
Social Computing (3-0-0),
Computational Cognition & Behavior
Social and Sustainable Computing (3-
Modelling (3-0-0), Social Networks (3-0-0),
4. Sustainable 0-0),
Ethics, Policy, Law and regulations in
Computing ICT for Development (2-0-
AI(0-0-2), Crowd-sourcing and human
0)
computing (3-0-0), Environmental
Informatics (3-0-0), Computational
Microeconomics (3-0-0), Project (0-0-6)
Intelligent
Communication and
5. Jointly with EE Jointly with EE
Networking
(CS, AIDE, EE)
VLSI Systems
6. Jointly with EE Jointly with EE
(EE, CS)
13
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering (Direct Entry)
Table 7. Curriculum of B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
Cat Course LTP C N G Cat Course LTP C N G
H C C H C C
I Semester II Semester
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IE Engineering 2-1-0 3 - 3
Electrical Mechanics
Engineering
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IS Chemistry 3-0-0 3 - 3
Computer Science
IE Introduction to 3-0-2 5 - 4 IS Physics 3-0-0 3 - 3
Bioengineering
IS Chemistry Lab 0-0-2 2 - 1
IS Physics Lab 0-0-2 2 - 1
IS Mathematics I 3-1-0 4 - 4 IS Mathematics II 3-1-0 4 - 4
IE Engineering 0-0-2 2 - 1 IE Engineering 0-0-2 1 - 1
Visualization Realization
NE Engineering 0-0-2 2 1 - NE Engineering Design 0-0-2 2 1 -
Design I II
NH Communication 0-0-2 2 1 - NH Communication 0-0-2 2 1 -
Skill I Skill II
NH Social Connect and 0-0-1 1 0.5 - NH Social Connect and 0-0-1 1 0.5 -
responsibilities I responsibilities II
NH Performing Arts I 0-0-1 1 0.5 - NH Performing Arts 0-0-1 1 0.5 -
/Sports I II/Sports II
Total 12-1- 27 3 17 Total 11-2- 24 3 16
14 12
III Semester IV Semester
IS Probability, 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Materials Science & 1-0-0 1 - 1
Statistics and Engineering
Stochastic (Electronic
Processes materials)
14
IE MSE - 2X 1- 2 - 2 IE Thermodynamics 3-1-0 4 - 4
(i) Energy materials 0-0
(ii) Computational
Material Design
IE Signals and 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Pattern Recognition 3-0-2 5 - 4
Systems and Machine
Learning
PC Maths for 3-1-0 4 4 PC Software 3-0-2 5 4
Computing Engineering
PC Data Structures 3-0-2 5 - 4 PC Human-Machine 0-0-4 4 2
and Algorithms Interaction
LS Foundations of 3-0-0 3 - 3 PC Digital Design 2-0-2 4 3
Quantum
Information
Processing
(Program Linked
Science Elective)
NE Intro. To Profession 0-0-2 2 1 IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 3
Total 17-3- 24 1 21 Total 15-1- 23 - 21
4 10
V Semester VI Semester
PC Design and 3-1-0 4 4 PC Cyber Security 3-0-2 5 4
Analysis of
Algorithms
PC Computer 3-0-0 3 3 PC Computer Networks 3-0-3 6 4.5
Architecture
PC Operating Systems 3-0-2 5 4 PC Digital Systems Lab 0-0-3 3 1.5
PC Principles of 3-0-0 3 3 PC CS Core Bouquet -1 3-0-0 3 3
Programming (Algorithms)/ 2
Languages (Hardware)
PC Database Systems 3-0-2 5 4
IH Humanities II 3-0-0 3 - 3 PE Programme/Open 6-0-0 6 6
Elective
NH Professional Ethics 0-1-0 1 - NH Professional Ethics 0-0-2 1 -
I II
Total 18-2- 23 1 21 Total 15-1- 23 1 19
4 8
VII Semester VIII Semester
15
PP B. Tech. Project 0-0-6 6 - 3 IH Humanities IV 3-0-0 3 - 3
PC CS Core Bouquet-1 3-0-0 3 3
(Algorithms)/2
(Hardware)
PE Programme/Open 6-0-0 6 - 6 PE Programme/Open 15-0- 15 - 15
/ Electives / Electives 0
OE OE
IH Humanities III 3-0-0 3 - 3
IS Environmental 2-0-0 2 - 2
Science
Total 14-0- 20 - 17 Total 18-0- 18 - 18
6 0
Total of Graded Credits - 15
0
Total of Non-Graded Credits 9 -
Non-Graded Design Credits 6 -
Grand Total 165
16
13. Curriculum of Double B.Tech.: B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering and B.Tech. in
Engineering Science
Table 8. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
Ca Course LTP C N G Ca Course LTP C N GC
t H C C t H C
I Semester II Semester
First two semesters same as Table 8a or 8 b
33 Graded and 6 non graded credits
III Semester IV Semester
ES Probability, 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Materials Science & 3 × 3 - 3
Statistics, and Engineering 1-0-0
Stochastic Processes
ES Modern Physics 3-0-0 3 - 3 ES Embedded Systems 3-0-2 5 - 4
and IoT
IE Thermodynamics 3-1-0 4 - 4 IE Pattern Recognition 3-0-2 5 - 4
and Machine
Learning
ES Data Structures and 3-0-2 5 - 4 ES Design of 3-0-0 3 - 3
Algorithms Experiments
IE Signals and Systems 3-1-0 4 - 4 ES Control Systems 3-0-2 5 - 4
NE Intro. To Profession 0-0-2 2 1 IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 - 3
Total 15-3-4 22 1 19 Total 18-0-6 24 - 21
V Semester VI Semester
PC Design and 3-1-0 4 4 PC Cyber Security 3-0-2 5 4
Analysis of
Algorithms
PC Principles of 3-0-0 3 3 PC Computer Networks 3-0-3 6 4.5
Programming
Languages
PC Operating Systems 3-0-2 5 4 PC Software 3-0-2 5 4
Engineering
PC Database Systems 3-0-2 5 4 PC Human-Machine 0-0-4 4 2
Interaction
17
PC Maths for 3-1-0 4 4 PC Digital Design 2-0-2 4 3
Computing
PC CS Core Bouquet - 1 3-0-0 3 3
(Algorithms)/ 2
(Hardware)
IH Humanities II 3-0-0 3 - 3
N Professional Ethics I 0-1-0 1 - N Professional Ethics II 0-1-0 1 -
H H
Total 18-3-4 24 1 22 Total 15-1- 29 1 20.
14 5
VII Semester VIII Semester
PP B. Tech. Project 0-0-6 6 - 3 PE Programme/Enginee 17-0-0 17 - 17
/ ring Science
ES Electives
PC CS Core Bouquet - 3-0-0 3 3 IH Humanities III 3-0-0 3 - 3
1 (Algorithms)/ 2
(Hardware)
PE Programme/ 12-0-0 12 - 12 PC Digital Systems Lab 0-0-3 3 1.5
/ Engineering Science
OE Electives
PC Computer 3-0-0 3 3
Architecture
IS Environmental 2-0-0 2 - 2
Science
Total 20-0-6 26 - 23 Total 20-0-0 20 - 21.
5
Total Graded Credits - 160
Total of Non-Graded Credits 9 -
Non-Graded Design Credits 6 -
Grand Total 175
Note: ES are proposed Engineering Science compulsory courses
18
14. Detailed Course Content of Programme Compulsory Courses
Course Title Operating Systems Course No. CS XXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
1. To learn about design principles of operating systems
2. To do a case study of Operating System
Learning Outcomes
1. Ability to modify and compile OS
2. Ability to solve synchronization problems in Operating Systems
Contents
Overview of Operating Systems: Types of Operating Systems, System calls and OS structure. (4 Lectures)
Processes Management: Process, Threads, CPU scheduling. (6 Lectures)
Process Coordination: Mutual exclusion, Mutex implementation, Semaphores, Monitors and condition
variables, Deadlocks. (10 Lectures)
Memory Management: Swapping, Paging, Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page Replacement
algorithms. (8 Lectures)
Storage Management: I/O devices and drivers, Disks and file Systems, File layout and directories, File system
performance, File system reliability. (8 Lectures)
Protection and Security: System protection, System security. (6 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Designing a shell in Linux
2. Multithreaded programming using pthread
3. Solving the Sleeping-Barber problem
4. Modification of scheduling algorithm in Linux
5. Solving the Producer-Consumer problem over a network
6. Finding text, data, and stack segments of a process in Linux
7. Implementation of page replacement algorithms
8. Changing file attributes in Linux
9. Implementing an encrypted file system in Linux
10. Implementing symbolic links in Linux
Text Book
1. A. SILBERSCHATZ, P.B. GALVIN, G. GAGNE (2018), Operating System Concepts, John Wiley & Sons Inc.,
10th Edition.
Reference Book
1. A.S. TANENBAUM, A.S. WOODHULL (2006), Operating Systems Design and Implementation, Pearson, 3rd
Edition.
2. W. STALLINGS (2017), Operating Systems Internals and Design Principles, Pearson, 9th Edition.
19
Course Title Human-Machine Interaction Course No. CS2xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 0-0-4 [2]
Offered for B.Tech (CSE, AIDE) Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None
Objectives
1. To provide a theoretical and practical understanding of human-machine interaction (HMI) design, including
concepts of user centered and design thinking, usability, interfaces, rapid prototyping, and evaluation.
Learning Outcomes
1. The students will have:
2. A broad understanding of human-machine interaction and latest technologies.
3. Understanding of perceptual and cognitive basis of human-machine interaction.
4. Knowledge of user centered design and techniques for rapid prototyping.
5. Knowledge of assessing usefulness and usability of a design
6. Introduction to approaches for gathering and analyzing interaction data, and conveying design concepts.
Lectures (discussions in the lab and web-based flip pedagogy)
1. Theories and Research Methods in HMI
2. Understanding User Experience
3. Foundations and Concepts of Interaction
4. Prototyping Techniques
5. Prototyping Evaluation
6. Communicating User Needs and Requirements
7. Speculative Design
8. Case Studies
Laboratory and Assignments (primary approach)
1. Find a poorly designed item (anything). Submit either a picture or sketch and describe why it is poorly
designed. (Week 1)
2. Heuristic Evaluation and Interview (Week 1)
3. User Scenarios, Personas and Storyboards ((Week 2)
4. User Journeys (Week 3)
5. Wireframes: Paper and Digital Prototyping (Week 4)
6. Prototype Evaluation Study Design (Week 5, 6)
7. Value Sensitive Design Evaluation (Week 7, 8)
8. Design visual Interfaces (laptop, mobile) - e.g. gesture based (Week 9, 10)
9. Design voice interfaces - e.g. speech chatbot (Week 11, 12)
10. Design multimodal interactions (Week 13, 14)
Text Book
1. H. SHARP, J. PREECE, Y. ROGERS (2019), Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Wiley,
5th Edition.
20
Course Title Maths for Computing Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-1-0 [4]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Core
Prerequisite None
Objectives
1. To learn about languages, grammars, and computation models
2. To learn about computability
3. To learn basics of parsing techniques
Learning Outcomes:
1. The students are expected to have the ability to:
2. Model computer science problems using discrete mathematical structures
3. Distinguish between computable and incomputable problems
4. Develop understanding of properties of languages and design parsers
Contents
Discrete Structures: Can computers solve every problem? The limits of computing, Set theory, Relations and
functions, Propositional logic, First-order logic, Counting techniques. (12 Lectures)
Proof techniques: Constructive, Contraposition, Contradiction; Mathematical Induction (5 Lectures)
Graph Theory: Properties of graphs, Graph matching and coloring. (6 Lectures)
Automata Theory: DFAs, NFAs, Equivalence of DFAs and NFAs, Closure properties of regular languages,
Regular expressions, Equivalence of regular expressions and NFAs, Nonregular languages, Context-Free
Grammars, Context-Free Languages. (10 Lectures)
Turing Machine: Introduction, Designing Turing machines, The Universal Turing machine. (5 Lectures)
Parsing Techniques: LR, LALR, Shift-Reduce parsers. (4 Lectures)
Text Books
1. M. SIPSER (2014), Introduction to the Theory of Computation, Cengage Learning, 3rd Edition.
2. K.H. ROSEN (2018), Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, McGraw-Hill, 2018, 8th Edition.
References
1. J.E. HOPCROFT, R. MOTWANI, J.D. ULLMAN (2008), Pearson, Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages, and Computation, 3rd Edition.
2. R. JOHNSONBAUGH (2017), Discrete Mathematics, Prentice Hall, 8th Edition.
Self-learning material
1. Stanford CS103: http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs103/
21
Course Title Design and Analysis of Algorithms Course No. CSLxxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-1-0 [4]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
1. To introduce and implement various techniques for designing algorithms and advanced data structures.
2. To learn space and time complexity analysis of algorithms.
Learning Outcomes
1. Ability to choose and implement appropriate algorithm design techniques for solving problems.
2. Understand how the choice of data structures and algorithm design methods impact the performance of
programs.
3. Ability to analyze the worst-case and average-case behaviour of algorithms in terms of time and memory
requirements.
Contents
Reasoning About Algorithms: P, NP, NP-completeness, Reductions, Complexity analysis. (5 lectures)
Graph Algorithms: Strongly-connected components, Kosaraju’s algorithm 1 and 2, Applications. (4 lectures)
Greedy Techniques: Local versus Global optimality, Interval scheduling, Exchange arguments. (5 lectures)
Divide-and-Conquer: Optimality, Recursive algorithms, Divide-and-Conquer recurrences, The Master
Theorem and applications, Non-uniform recurrences. (6 lectures)
Dynamic Programming: Reusing sub-computations (Sequence alignment, Bellman-Ford algorithm),
Precomputing (Floyd-Warshall algorithm, Johnson’s algorithm), Combinatorial problems. (Knapsack) (6
lectures)
Linear Programming: Canonical and standard forms, Feasibility and optimization, Simplex algorithm. (5
lectures)
Approximation Algorithms: Relative approximations, PAS and FPAS scheduling. (4 lectures)
Randomized Algorithms: Random guess (Quick select), Random guess with high confidence (Karger’s min-cut
algorithm), Storing associative data (Hashing), Error bounds. (7 lectures)
Text Book
1. T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009), Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press, 3rd
Edition.
Reference Book
1. J. KLEINBERG, E. TARDOS (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
22
Course Title Computer Networks Course No. CSL3xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
Offered for B.Tech Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Prob. Stat. and Stochastic Process
Objectives
1. To understand the organization of computer networks, factors influencing the performance of computer
networks, and the reasons for having a variety of different types of networks.
2. To understand the Internet structure, various protocols of the Internet and how these protocols address the
standard problems of networking and the Internet.
3. Hands-on experience on networking fundamentals through practical sessions.
Learning Outcomes
1. Familiarity with the essential protocols of computer networks in terms of design, implementation &
operations.
2. Identifying various design parameters such as latency, bandwidth, error rate, throughput, and their influence
on node/link utilization and performance
Contents
Introduction: Layer approach, Packet switching techniques, Performance metrics delay, loss, throughput,
bandwidth delay product, latency, Basic understanding of physical and data link layer. (8 Lectures)
Network Layer: Internetworking, Tunneling, Encapsulation, Fragmentation, Internet protocol and its
operation, Routing algorithms distance vector and link state algorithm and Routing protocols. (8 Lectures)
Transport Layer: Transmission Control Protocol, Flow control, Error control, Congestion control, Header,
Services, Connection management, Timers, Congestion control; User Datagram Protocol, Introduce low latency
protocols (WebRTC, LHLS), Applications (IoT and FOG, Real-time applications, ad-hoc wireless protocols). (10
Lectures)
Applications: Network programming, Socket abstraction, Peer-to-peer architecture (P2P architecture), Client
server architecture, DNS, HTTP, FTP, SMTP, TelNet, etc. (7 Lectures)
Advanced Internetworking: Multicast routing, Queuing disciplines and buffer management techniques. (6
Lectures)
Network security: Public key and private key cryptography, Digital signature, Firewalls. (3 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Networking hardware (Understanding cables, switches, routers, Setting up switching network, Setting up
subnets and routing across the subnets)
2. Socket programming - Development of client-server application using sockets (possible examples, file transfer,
peer-peer applications, chat, network monitor etc.)
3. Networking commands - ifconfig, route, arp, arping, ping, netstat. tcpdump, host, nslookup, dig, ftp, scp, ssh,
finger, dhclient, dhcrelay etc.
4. Protocol analyzer - closely looking at protocols (HTTP, TCP, UDP, ICMP, 802. 3, DHCP, DNS etc. ) headers and
analyzing the interactions between client and server of different applications
5. QualNet simulator/Packet Tracer (Implementation of ARQs - Stop-and-wait, Sliding Window Go Back N etc.
Verifying operations of routing protocols, influence of congestion on end users performance, congestion control
algorithms Reno, New Reno, Cubic, router buffer size on end users performance.
Text Book
1. K.W. ROSS, J.F. KUROSE (2016), Computer Networks: A Top Down Approach, Pearson, 7th Edition.
Reference Books
1. W. STALLINGS (2013), Data and Computer Communications, Pearson, 10th Edition.
2. L.L. PETERSON, B.S. DAVIE (2020), Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 6th
Edition.
23
Course Title Database Systems Course No. CSLXXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
1. To understand concepts of database design, database management systems and their applications, data
modeling, and query languages.
2. To understand different file-structures, transaction management schemes, concurrency control processes,
database recovery mechanisms, query processing and optimization.
Learning Outcomes
1. Students are expected to have the ability to:
2. Apply different data modeling methods to requirement analysis, design, and implementation of database
systems.
3. Deduce normalized forms for efficient relational database design.
4. Use appropriate storage and access structures.
5. Use techniques for transaction management, concurrency control and recovery.
6. Analyze complexity issues of query execution.
Contents
Preliminaries: Database system concepts and architecture. (2 Lectures)
Semantic Data Model: Entity-Relationship (ER) model, Enhanced Entity-Relationship (EER) model. (4
Lectures)
Relational Model and Languages: Relational data model, Relational database constraints, Relational database
design by ER- and EER-to-relational mapping, Relational algebra and Relational calculus. (9 Lectures)
SQL: Schema definition, Constraints, Queries, Views. (5 Lectures)
Database Design Theory: Functional dependencies, Normalization. (5 Lectures)
Algorithms for Query Processing and Query Optimization (5 Lectures)
Database File Organization: Disk storage, File structures, Hashing techniques, Indexing structures. (3
Lectures)
Database Transaction Processing: Transaction concepts and theory, Concurrency control protocols, Database
recovery protocols. (6 Lectures)
Advanced Databases: Distributed databases, Object-oriented databases, Multimedia databases, Handling
unstructured data, Big data, NoSQL databases. (3 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Exercises in SQL covering: Data definition, Data manipulation, Data retrieval, Transaction control
2. Exercises in PL/SQL covering procedures, functions, loops, triggers
3. NoSQL data organization and query optimization.
Text Book
1. R. ELMASRI, S.B. NAVATHE (2017), Fundamentals of Database Systems, Pearson Education, 7th Edition.
Reference Books
1. R. RAMAKRISHNAN, J. GEHRKE (2014), Database Management Systems, McGraw-Hill, 3rd Edition.
2. H.G. MOLINA, J. ULLMAN, J. WIDOM (2014), Database Systems: The Complete Book, Pearson, 2nd
Edition.
3. P. RAJ, A. RAMAN, D. NAGARAJ, S. DUGGIRALA (2015), High-Performance Big-Data Analytics:
Computing Systems and Approaches, Springer, 1st Edition.
4. N. SABHARWAL, S. GUPTA EDWARD (2014), Big Data NoSQL: Architecting MongoDB, CreateSpace
Independent Publishing Platform, 1st Edition.
5. K. BANKER, P. BAKKUM, S. VERCH, D. GARRETT, T. HAWKINS (2016), MongoDB in Action, Manning
Publications, 2nd Edition.
6. G. HARRISON (2015), Next Generation Databases: NoSQL and Big Data, Apress, 1st Edition.
24
Course Title Cyber Security Course No. CSL6XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech Type Core
Prerequisite Computer Networks
Objectives
The Instructor will provide the skills needed to protect networks, secure electronic assets, prevent attacks,
ensure the privacy of your customers, and build secure infrastructure.
Learning Outcomes
1. The students are expected to have the ability to:
2. To protect data and respond to threats that occur over the Internet
3. Design and implement risk analysis, security policies, and damage assessment
4. An ability to apply security principles and practices to the environment, hardware, software, and human
aspects of a system.
Contents
Introduction to Cyber Security: Internet governance – Challenges and constraints, Cyber threats. (2 Lectures)
Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards: Cyber security, Vulnerabilities, safeguards,
Access control, Audit, Authentication, Biometrics, Cryptography, Deception, Denial of Service Filters, Ethical
hacking, Firewalls, Response, Scanning, Security policy, Threat management. (8 Lectures)
Securing Web Application, Services and Servers: Basic security for HTTP applications and services, Basic
security for SOAP services, Identity management and Web services, Authorization patterns, Security
considerations, challenges. (8 Lectures)
Intrusion Detection and Prevention: Intrusion detection and Prevention techniques, Anti-malware software,
Security information management, Network session analysis, System integrity validation. (7 Lectures)
Overview of Firewalls: Types of firewalls, User management, VPN security protocols: - PGP and S/MIME,
Security at transport layer- SSL and TLS, Security at network layer-IPSec. (5 Lectures)
Cyberspace and the Law: Cyber security regulations, Roles of international law, State and Private Sector in
cyberspace, Cyber security standards. The INDIAN cyberspace, National cyber security policy. (6 Lectures)
Cyber Forensics: Handling preliminary investigations, Controlling an investigation, Conducting disk-based
analysis, Investigating information-hiding, Tracing internet access, Tracing memory in real-time. (6 Lectures)
Laboratory
1. Design and implementation of a simple client/server model and running application using sockets and
TCP/IP.
2. To make students aware of the insecurity of default passwords, printed passwords and passwords
transmitted in plain text.
3. To teach students how to use SSH for secure file transfer or for accessing local computers using port
forwarding technique.
4. Comparison between Telnet and SSH for Secure Connection
5. AVISPA Tool for the Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications
Text Book
1. C.J. HOOFNAGLE (2016), Federal Trade Commission Privacy Law and Policy, Cambridge University Press,
2016.
Self Learning Material
1. P.W. SINGER, A. FRIEDMAN (2014), Cybersecurity: What Everyone Needs to Know, OUP, 1st Edition.
2. L. THAMES, D. SCHAEFER (2017), Cybersecurity for Industry 4.0, Springer, 1st Edition.
3. N. HASSAN, R. HIJAZI (2017), Digital Privacy and Security Using Windows, Apress, 1st Edition.
25
Course Title Computer Architecture Course No. CSLXXX/EELXXX
Department CSE and EE Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech. CSE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None
Objectives
1. To understand aspects of computer architecture and program performance
2. To provide essential understanding of different subsystems of modern computer system and design aspects
these subsystems
3. To introduce hands-on experience of computer architecture design and performance enhancement
Learning Outcomes
1. The students are expected to have the ability to:
2. Ability to identify the basic components and design of a computer, including CPU, memories, and
input/output units
3. Ability to identify the issues involved in the instruction execution and various stages of instruction life stage
4. Ability to identify the issues related to performance improvement
Contents
Introduction: Basic computer organization, Components of computer systems, information representation. (3
Lectures)
Central Processing Unit: Arithmetic and Logic Unit; Instruction sets; RISC, CISC, and ASIC/ASIP paradigms;
Various addressing modes; Assembly language programming; Instruction interpretation: micro-operations and
their RTL specification; CPU design, Hardwired and microprogrammed, Performance issues: Parallel
processing, Pipelining, Hazards, Advanced parallelization techniques. Cache Coherence protocols, Multicore
Architecture (16 Lectures)
Memory Hierarchy: Memory organization, Various levels of memory architecture and their working principles,
Cache memory, Writing strategy, Coherence, Performance issues and enhancement techniques for memory
design. (14 Lectures)
Interfacing: I/O transfer techniques: Program controlled, Interrupt controlled and DMA; Introduction to
computer buses, Peripherals and current trends in architecture. (9 Lectures)
Text Books
1. D.A. PATTERSON, J.L. HENNESSY (2008), Computer Organization and Design, Morgan Kaufmann, 4th
Edition.
2. W. STALLINGS (2015), Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing for Performance, Pearson
Education India, 10th Edition.
References
1. A.S. TANENBAUM (2013), Structured Computer Organization, Prentice Hall of India, 6th Edition.
2. V.C. HAMACHER, Z.G. VRANESIC, S.G. ZAKY (2011), Computer Organization, McGraw Hill, 5th Edition.
3. J.L. HENNESSY, D.A. PATTERSON (2017), Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, Morgan
Kaufmann, 6th Edition.
4. D.V. HALL, S.S.S.P. RAO (2017), Microprocessors and Interfacing, McGraw Hall, 3rd Edition.
26
Course Title Software Engineering Course No. CSL2XX
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
Offered for B.Tech CSE Type Compulsory
Prerequisite Introduction to Computer Science
Objectives
1. This course focuses on engineering practices and processes that development team uses to make sure the
team is setup for change
2. The course introduces practices, techniques and processes that can help team build high quality software
Learning Outcomes
Able to comfortably and effectively participate in various techniques and processes for building scalable and
high quality software.
Contents
Introduction of Software Engineering: Need for software engineering, Software quality attributes, Software
product pipelines, Software life cycle models and processes, Requirement engineering using UML Diagrams.
(9 Lectures)
Software Architecture and Design: Design principles, Design Patterns, Architecture Versus Design, Modularity,
Software Components and Connectors, Architecture Styles. (6 Lectures)
Essence of Modern Software Engineering: Software engineering essence, Essence language, Essence kernel,
Using essence kernel in agile development practices, Agile Principles, Agile process models through essence
kernel, Large scale complex development Using kernel. (13 Lectures)
Software Testing: Quality metrics, Coding style and Static analysis tools, Verification and validation, Various
testing techniques and Test case generations. (7 Lectures)
Software Project Management: Software versioning and Continuous integration, Project management and Risk
analysis, Configuration management, Cost analysis and estimation. (7 Lectures)
Laboratory
Assignment/Project on Software requirement acquisition, UML diagrams, Preparing software requirement
specification, Practicing agile methods, User story, Backlog, Test case generation, Unit testing, CI
configurations, Cost estimation, Manpower management and Sprint analysis using Burn down charts.
Text Books
1. R.S. PRESSMAN, B.R. MAXIM (2019), Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, McGraw-Hill India,
2019, 9th Edition.
2. Mark Richards, Neal Ford (2020), Fundamentals of Software Architecture, O'Reilly Media, Inc.
3. L. BASS, P. CLEMENTS, R. KAZMAN (2012), Software Architecture in Practice, Pearson, 3rd Edition.
4. I. JACOBSON, H. LAWSON, P.W. NG, P.E. McMAHON, M. GOEDICKE (2019), The Essentials of Modern
Software Engineering, ACM Books.
27
Course Title Principles of Programming Languages Course No. CSXXX
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type compulsory
Prerequisites Data Structures and Algorithms, Computer
Architectures, Operating Systems
Objectives
1. To introduce major programming paradigms, and principles and techniques involved in design and
implementation of modern programming languages.
2. To introduce frameworks for reasoning about programming languages.
Learning Outcomes
1. To identify the abstract syntax of any programming language
2. To be able to analyze and critique/appreciate the inherent philosophy of different programming languages
3. To be able to design small domain-specific languages/language features and implement them as interpreters
or embeddings in another language.
Contents
Introduction: Study of principles of computing paradigms like imperative, functional, object-oriented and logic
programming. (2 Lectures)
Syntax and semantics of programming languages: Syntax and semi-formal semantic specification using
attribute grammar. (4 Lectures)
Imperative Programming: Location, Reference and expressions, Assignment and Control, Data types, Blocks,
Procedures, Modules. (6 Lectures)
Object-oriented programming: Classes, Objects, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and software reuse. (6
Lectures)
Functional programming: Function as first-class objects, Higher order functions, Polymorphic data types, Type
checking, Type inferencing, Recursion, Lambda calculus. (6 Lectures)
Logic programming: Horn clauses, Unification, SLD resolution, Backtracking, Cuts. (6 Lectures)
Concurrent programming: Processes, Synchronization primitives, Safety and liveness properties, Multithreaded
programs. (6 Lectures)
Case Studies: C++, Java, Haskell, Prolog, Python. (6 Lectures)
Text Books
1. R. SETHI (2006), Programming Languages: Concepts and Principles, Pearson, 2nd Edition.
2. T. W. PRATT, M.V. SELKOWITZ (2000), Programming Languages: Design and Implementation, Pearson, 4th
Edition.
Reference Books
1. B.J. MacLENNAN (1999), Principles of Programming Languages: Design, Evaluation and Implementation,
Oxford University Press, 3rd Edition.
2. M. BEN-ARI (2005), Principles of Concurrent and Distributed Programming, Pearson, 2nd Edition.
3. J.C. MITCHELL (1996), Foundations for Programming Languages, MIT Press.
4. B.C. PIERCE (2002), Types and Programming Languages, MIT Press, 1st Edition.
5. H.P. BARENDREGT (2014), The Lambda Calculus: Its Syntax and Semantics, North-Holland, 2nd Edition.
6. D.P. FRIEDMAN, M. WAND (2008), Essentials of Programming Languages, MIT Press, 3rd Edition.
28
15. Detailed Course Content of Programme Elective Courses
Core Bouquet - 1
1. Randomized Algorithms 7xx
2. Approximation Algorithms 7xx
3. Distributed Algorithms 7xx
4. Graph Theoretic Algorithms 7xx
5. Parameterized Complexity 7xx
6. Optimization (Mathematics) 4xx
29
Course Title Randomized Algorithms Course No. CS7xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Bouquet/Elective
Prerequisite Design and Analysis of Algorithms,
Probability, Statistics and Stochastic Processes
Objectives
1. This course presents basic concepts in the design and analysis of randomized algorithms.
Learning Outcomes
1. Familiarity with several of the main thrusts of work in randomized algorithms.
2. Ability to read current research publications in the area.
3. Ability to use randomized algorithm techniques for real world problems.
Contents
Tools and Techniques: Basic probability theory; Randomized complexity classes; Game-theoretic techniques;
Markov, Chebyshev, and moment inequalities; Limited independence; Tail inequalities and the Chernoff
bound; Conditional expectation; The probabilistic method; Markov chains and random walks; Algebraic
techniques; Probability amplification and derandomization. (22 Lectures)
Applications: Sorting and searching; Data structures; Combinatorial optimization and graph algorithms;
Geometric algorithms and linear programming; Approximation and counting problems; Parallel and
distributed algorithms; Online algorithms. (20 Lectures)
Text Books
1. R. MOTWANI, P. RAGHAVAN (1995), Randomized Algorithms, Cambridge University Press, 1st Edition.
Reference Books
1. M. MITZENMACHER, E. UPFAL (2017), Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and
Probabilistic Analysis, Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
2. W. FELLER (2008), An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications, Volumes I and II, John Wiley,
2nd Edition.
3. P. BILLINGSLEY (2012), Probability and Measure, John Wiley.
Self Learning
1. https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-856j-randomized-algorithms-
fall-2002/lecture-notes/.
30
Course Title Approximation Algorithms Course No. CS7xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Bouquet/Elective
Prerequisite Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Objectives
1. The objective of the course is to introduce general-purpose techniques for large classes of intractable
optimization problems.
Learning Outcomes
Students will be able to:
1. Identify novel and significant open research questions in the field.
2. Apply their knowledge in the design and implementation of viable solutions to those problems.
Contents
Combinatorial Techniques: Metric TSP, Euclidean TSP, FPTAS for knapsack, Greedy algorithms for makespan,
PTAS for makespan, Local search: The Min degree spanning tree problem. (10 Lectures)
Linear Programming Relaxations: Linear programming: Vertex cover, Set cover via Dual fitting, Set cover via
the Primal-Dual schema, Steiner forest, Facility location. (10 Lectures)
Cuts, Metrical Relaxations, and Embeddings: Basic embedding results and applications, Tree embeddings: Buy
at bulk network design and L1 embeddings, Min multicut and metrical relaxation for sparsest cut, Rounding
for sparsest cut via L1 embeddings, Balanced cuts and their applications, Tree embeddings via random cuts.
(10 Lectures)
Random Hyperplanes, Dimensionality Reduction, and Hashing: Solving semidefinite programs, Rounding
SDPs using random projections: MAX-CUT, Dimensionality reduction via random projections, Approximate
nearest neighbors, Locality sensitive hashing: Random projections and Min hashing. (10 Lectures)
Game Theory: Selfish algorithmic strategies, Cost sharing schemes using Primal-Dual algorithms. (2 Lectures)
Text book
1. V. VAZIRANI (2013), Approximation Algorithms, Springer-Verlag.
Reference Books
1. M.R. GAREY, D.S. JOHNSON (2016), Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-
Completeness, W. H. Freeman Company.
2. D. DU, K.KO, X. HU (2011), Design and Analysis of Approximation Algorithms, Springer.
31
Course Title Distributed Algorithms Course No. CS7xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Bouquet/Elective
Prerequisite Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Objectives
The objective of the course is to introduce the distributed algorithms in real-world systems
Learning Outcomes
Students will be able to:
1. To introduce the most important basic results in the area of distributed algorithms, and prepare interested
students to begin independent research or take a more advanced course in distributed algorithms.
2. To implement distributed algorithms in real-world distributed computing platforms
3. To understand and identify applications of distributed algorithms in real-world systems
Contents
Introduction to Distributed Computing Models : Model of a distributed system: asynchronous message-passing
model, Time and message complexity, Safety and liveness properties, Clock Synchronization [5 Lectures ]
Leader Election Logical Clocks and Causality: Leader election in rings, Asynchronous leader election with identities,
Synchronous leader election by abusing the synchronous model, Logical clocks and vector clocks , Snapshots and
synchronization [ 7 Lectures]
Message Ordering and Group Communication: Termination Detection Algorithms and Reasoning with
Knowledge [4 Lectures]
Distributed Mutual Exclusion Algorithms: Lamport’s algorithm, Ricart–Agrawala algorithm, and Deadlock
Detection Algorithms [6 Lectures]
Global Predicate Detection: Modalities on predicates, Centralized algorithm for relational predicates,
Conjunctive predicates, Distributed algorithms for conjunctive predicates [3 Lectures]
Distributed Shared Memory: Memory consistency models, Shared memory mutual exclusion and Wait-
freedom [6 Lectures]
Checkpointing and Rollback Recovery: Checkpoint-based recovery and Log-based rollback recovery [3
Lectures]
Consensus and Agreement : Agreement in a failure-free system (synchronous or asynchronous) , Agreement in
(message-passing) synchronous systems with Failures, Agreement in asynchronous message-passing systems
with failures , Wait-free shared memory consensus in asynchronous systems [6 Lectures]
Distributed Programming Environments: Communication primitives, selected case studies [2 Lectures]
Text book
A.D. KSHEMKALYANI, M. SINGHAL (2011), Distributed Computing: Principles, Algorithms, and Systems,
Cambridge University Press.
Reference Books
1. N. LYNCH, (1996), Distributed Algorithms, Morgan Kaufmann, 1st Edition.
2. G. TEL, (2000), Introduction to Distributed Algorithms, Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
32
Title Graph-theoretic Algorithms Number CS7xxx
Department Computer Science L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M. Tech. Type Elective
Prerequisite Algorithm Design and Analysis
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce and address graph problems using algorithm design principles.
1. Discuss graph theoretic algorithms in real-world scenarios.
Learning Outcomes
1. To give the student further exposure to the design, analysis, and application of algorithms for problems defined
on graphs.
2. Formulate and solve real-world problems using the mathematical foundations of graph theory.
Contents
Introduction to graphs. (2 Lectures)
Max Flow Min Cut Theorem, Algorithms for min cut and max flow, Maximum matching, Hall’s theorem,
algorithms for computing maximum matching in weighted and unweighted graphs. (6 Lectures)
Vertex and Edge Coloring of Graphs, Independent Set. (4 Lectures)
Interval graphs, Perfect elimination orders, Comparability graphs, Interval Graph Recognition, Friends of
Interval Graphs. (7 Lectures)
Trees and treewidth. (7 Lectures)
Planar Graphs, Problems in planar graphs, Maximum Cut. (8 Lectures)
Planarity Testing, Triangulated graphs, Friends of planar graphs, Hereditary properties. (8 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. A. BRANDSTÄDT, V.B. LE, J.P. SPINRAD (1999), Graph Classes: A Survey, SIAM Monographs on Discrete
Mathematics and Applications, SIAM.
2. T. NISHIZEKI, N. CHIBA (1988), Planar Graphs: Theory and Algorithms, North-Holland publisher.
3. M.C. GOLUMBIC (2004), Algorithmic Graph Theory and Perfect Graphs, Academic Press, 2nd Edition.
Self-Learning Material
1. T. BIEDL, Lecture Notes of a Graduate Course, University of Waterloo.
33
Title Parameterized Complexity Number CS7xxx
Department Computer Science L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M. Tech. Type Elective
Prerequisite Algorithm Design and Analysis
Objectives
The Instructor will:
2. The objective of the course is to introduce a technique to deal with NP-hard problems
Learning Outcomes
1. Learn a new set of techniques to cope with NP-hard problems.
2. Identify novel and significant open research questions in the field.
Contents
Introduction to Parameterized Complexity. (1 Lecture)
Basic Techniques to design parameterized algorithms: Bounded Search Tree, Iterative Compression,
Randomized method. (16 Lectures)
Kernelization: Greedy Based Kernels, Matching Based Kernels, Sunflower Lemma, Crown Decomposition,
Expansion Lemma. (16 Lectures)
Parameterized Intractability. (9 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. M. CYGAN, F. FOMIN, L. KOWALIK, D. LOKSHTANOV, D. MARX, M. PILIPCZUK, M. PILIPCZUK, S.
SAURABH (2015), Parameterized Algorithms, Springer.
2. F. FOMIN, D. LOKSHTANOV, S. SAURABH, M. ZEHAVI (2019), Kernelization: Theory of Parameterized
Preprocessing, Cambridge University Press.
Self-Learning Material
1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ex8TueBsF1g&amp;list=PLhkiT_RYTEU0gpi97fqjtaHy9Gk47oF85&a
mp;index=1
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAEul4J3Br8&amp;list=PLhkiT_RYTEU1ekkuDwau01N4_Axr_PHQI
&amp;index=1
34
Core Bouquet - 2
1. VLSI Design (EE) 3xx
2. Embedded Systems (EE) 3xx
3. High-level Synthesis 7xx
35
Course Title High-level Synthesis Course No. CS/EE-7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for M.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Basic knowledge of digital circuits
Objectives
1. To provide an introduction to high-level synthesis of digital circuits and electronic design automation.
2. To explain the HLS design flow: circuit, logic, RTL, algorithm, systems.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability in:
1. Design Digital Circuits, Logic synthesis, optimization and technology mapping.
2. Design Verification
3. Use different tools like C-to-Silicon, AutoPilot from AutoESL, Synopsis for logic synthesis,
Contents
Introduction: Basic overview of the VLSI design flow, design abstractions (2 Lectures)
Digital Sub-System Design: Logic Circuits, Adders, Multipliers, ALU (5 Lectures)
HDL language: System C (8 Lectures)
Synthesis: Scheduling, Allocation, Binding (3 Lectures)
RTL Synthesis, Retiming, FSM Encoding, Combinational logic optimization and technology
mapping (6 Lectures)
Verification: Design vs verification, Types of Verification at each step of ASIC Design Flow
(functional/power/Gate Level Simulation (GLS)), UVM, Verification planning and Designing a test bench (7
Lectures)
Chip Architectures: Full Custom, Standard Cells and FPGA (4 Lectures)
Synthesis Tool: C-to-Silicon, AutoPilot from AutoESL (4 Lectures)
Overview of layout synthesis topics: Placement and routing. Chip Synthesis. (3 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. M. FINGEROFF (2010), High-level Synthesis Blue Book, Xlibris.
2. G. De MICHELI (2017), Synthesis and Optimization of Digital Circuits, McGraw-Hill.
3. S. KANG, Y. LEBLEBICI (2003), MOS Digital Integrated Circuits, Analysis and Design, WCB-
MCGrawHill, 3rd Edition.
36
Theory and Algorithms
1. Theory of Computation 4xx
2. Randomized Algorithms 7xx
3. Approximation Algorithms 7xx
4. Complexity Theory 4xx
5. Advanced Data Structures 4xx
6. Stream Analytics
7. Quantum Computing (IDRP) 4xx
8. Optimization (Mathematics) 3xx
37
Title Theory of Computation Course No. CSL4xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C])
Offered for B.Tech (CSE) Type Elective
Prerequisite Mathematics for Computing Antirequisite
Objectives
1. To learn about computability techniques
2. To learn about advanced computational complexity models
Learning Outcomes
1. To be able to distinguish between computable and un-computable problems
2. Gaining in-depth understanding of advanced complexity models
Contents
Computability: Review of Turing Machine, NP and NP-completeness, Diaganolization, view of PDAs,
2DFAs, FAs as restricted TMs, and related theorems. Tape reduction, and robustness of the model. Encoding
and Enumeration of Turing Machines, Undecidability. Rice-Myhill-Shapiro theorem. Relativisation.
Decision Trees and Communication Complexity:
Certificate Complexity, Randomized Decision Trees, Lower bounds on Randomized Complexity, Some
techniques for decision tree lower bounds, Comparison trees, and sorting lower bounds, Yao’s MinMax
Lemma, Definition of communication complexity, Lower bound methods, Overview of other communication
models, Applications of communication complexity.
Time Complexity: Time as a resource, Linear Speedup theorem, Crossing sequences and their applications,
Hierarchy theorems. P vs NP. Time Complexity classes and their relationships. Notion of completeness,
reductions. Cook-Levin Theorem. Ladner’s theorem. Relativization Barrier: Baker-Gill-Solovoy theorem.
Space Complexity: Space as a resource. PSPACE, L and NL. Reachability Problem, Completeness results.
Savitch’s theorem, Inductive Counting to show Immerman-Szelepscenyi theorem. Reachability problems,
Expander Graphs, SL=L
Complexity of Counting & Randomization: Counting problems, Theory of #P-completeness. The
complexity classes PP, ParityP, BPP, RP, BPP is in P/poly, Toda’s theorem.
Textbooks
1. D. Kozen (2013), Automata and Computability, Springer
2. D. KOzen (2006), Theory of Computation, Springer
3. S. Arora and B. Barak (2009), Complexity Theory: A Modern Approach, Cambridge University Press.
Reference books
1. Sipser, M., (2013), Introduction to the Theory of Computation, Cengage Learning
2. Hopcroft,J. E., Motwani, R., and Ullman, J. D., (2007), Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation,
Pearson
Self-Learning Material
38
Course Title Complexity Theory Course No. CSL6xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE Type Elective
Prerequisite Maths for Computing, Data Structures and
Algorithms
Objectives
1. The course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer science. It
attempts to present a vision of computer science beyond computers.
Learning Outcomes
Students are expected to understand:
1. The theory of classical complexity classes and its challenges.
2. The state-of-the-art in the field of complexity theory.
Contents
Basic Complexity Classes: The computational model, NP and NP completeness, Diagonalization, Space
complexity, The Polynomial hierarchy and alternations, Circuits, Randomized computation, Interactive proofs,
Complexity of counting, Complexity issues in cryptography. (16 Lectures)
Lower Bounds for Concrete Computational Models: Decision trees, Communication complexity, Circuit lower
bounds, Algebraic computation models. (10 Lectures)
Advanced topics: Average case complexity: Levin’s theory, Derandomization, Expanders and extractors,
Hardness amplification and Error correcting codes, PCP and hardness of approximation, Logic in complexity
theory, Quantum computation. (16 Lectures)
Text Books
1. S. ARORA, B. BARAK (2009), Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach, Cambridge University Press,
1st Edition.
Self Learning
1. MIT Lecture Notes, Automata, Computability, and Complexity, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science:
https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-045j-automata-computability-
and-complexity-spring-2011/lecture-notes/
39
Course Title Advanced Data Structures Course No. CS4xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE, AIDE Type Elective
Prerequisite Data Structures and Algorithms
Objectives
Data structures are one of the important elements of modern computer science. The objective of the course is to
learn major results and current research directions in data structure beyond the traditional linear and non-linear
data structures.
Learning Outcomes
1. Students will be able to use unconventional and modern data structures for the changing need of new age
algorithmic problems.
2. Students will learn to solve problems using data structures.
Contents
Temporal Data Structures: Persistent and retroactive data structures, Pointer machine. (5 Lectures)
Geometric Data Structures: Point location, Range searching, Fractional cascading, Data structures for moving
data. (5 Lectures)
Dynamic optimality: Analytic bounds, Splay trees, Geometric view, independent rectangle, key-independent
optimality. (5 Lectures)
External Memory Data Structures: Cache-oblivious (CO) Data structures such as B-Tree, CO priority Queue
etc. (5 Lectures)
Integer Data Structures: Predecessor/Successor problems, van Emde Boas, x-fast and y-fast trees, Fusion trees:
Sketching, Parallel comparison, Most significant set bit. (6 Lectures)
Static Trees and String Data Structures: Least common ancestor, Range minimum queries, Level ancestor,
Suffix tree, Suffix array, Linear-time construction for large alphabets, Suffix tray, Document retrieval. (5
Lectures)
Memory Efficient Data Structures: Rank, Select, Tries, Compact suffix arrays and trees. (5 Lectures)
Dynamic Graphs: Link-cut trees, Heavy-light decomposition, Euler tour trees, Decremental connectivity in
trees, Fully dynamic connectivity. (6 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. R.E. TARJAN (1983), Data Structures and Network Algorithms, SIAM. (covers BSTs, splay trees, link-cut trees)
2. P. MORIN (2013), Open Data Structures, Athabasca University Press, 31st Edition. (covers BSTs, B-trees,
hashing, and some integer data structures)
Self Learning Material
1. MIT Lectures in Advanced Data Structures (6.851): https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.851/fall17/lectures/
40
Course Title Stream Analytics Course No. CSxxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech 3rd and 4th years; PG Type Elective
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning, Pattern
Recognition and Machine Learning
Objectives
1. Provide background on some of the important models, algorithms, and applications related to stream data.
Learning Outcomes
1. Ability to understand and apply the practical and algorithmic aspects related to various topics of data streams
Contents
Introduction: Stream and mining algorithms. (2 Lectures)
Clustering Massive Data Streams: Micro-clustering based stream mining, clustering evolving data streams,
online micro-cluster maintenance, High-dimensional projected stream clustering, Classification of data streams
using micro-clustering, On-demand stream classification, Applications of micro-clustering. (12 Lectures)
Classification Methods in Data Streams: Ensemble based classification, Very fast decision trees, On-demand
classification, Online Information Network. (6 Lectures)
Distributed Mining of Data Streams: Outlier and anomaly detection, Clustering, Frequent itemset mining,
Classification, Summarization. (6 Lectures)
Change Diagnosis Algorithms in Evolving Data Streams: Velocity density method, Clustering for
characterizing stream evolution. (4 Lectures)
Multidimensional Analysis of Data Streams using Stream Cubes: Architecture for online analysis of data
streams, Stream data cube computation, Performance study. (6 Lectures)
Dimensionality Reduction and Forecasting on Streams: Principal Component Analysis, Auto-regressive
models and recursive least squares, Tracking correlations and hidden variables. (6 Lectures)
Text Book
1. C.C. AGGARWAL, (Ed.), Data Stream: Models and Algorithms, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2007.
41
Hardware
1. Embedded Systems (EE) 3xx
2. VLSI Design (EE) 3xx
3. High-level Synthesis 4xx
4. Hardware Software Co-Design 7xx
5. Neuromorphic Computing and Design 7xx
42
Title Hardware Software Co-design Number EEL7XX/CS7XX
Department CSE/Electrical Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech. Type Elective
Prerequisite Digital Design
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Give overview of the cooperative design of hardware and software components.
2. Provide the understanding of unification of currently separate hardware and software paths
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Achieve system-level objectives by exploiting the synergism of hardware and software through their
concurrent design.
2. Understand the movement of functionality between hardware and software.
Contents
Introduction to Hardware-Software Co-design, Design process, Application domains, Design technologies. (5
Lectures)
Data flow modeling implementation in software and hardware, Analysis of control flow and data flow, Finite
state machine with datapath, Custom hardware, Microprogrammed architecture, system on chip. (12 Lectures)
Codesign methodologies: Model representation, Hardware-software mapping - partitioning, scheduling, and
allocation, Software code optimization. (10 Lectures)
Hardware-software interfaces: Principles of hardware software communication, On-chip buses, Memory-
mapped interface, Coprocessor interface. (10 Lectures)
Codesign CAD tools: Ptolemy Project. (5 Lectures)
Textbook
1. P.R. SCHAUMONT (2010), A Practical Introduction to Hardware/Software Codesign, Springer; 1st Edition.
2. G. De MICHELI, M. SAMI (1996), Hardware/Software Co-Design, Springer.
43
Course Title Neuromorphic Computing and Design Course No. CS7xx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning / Pattern
Recognition and Machine Learning
Objectives
1. To provide information about neuroscientific progress towards reverse-engineering the brain
2. To provide essentials on key hardware building blocks, system level VLSI design and practical real-world
applications of neuromorphic Systems
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. View neuromorphic computing as a computer architecture research problem
2. Perform software and hardware implementation of basic biological neural circuits
Contents
(Fractal 1)
Foundational Concepts: Introduction to neuromorphic engineering, Neuroanatomy of human brain, Signaling
and operation of biological neurons, Neuron models - LIF, IF, HH, Synapses and plasticity rules, Spike-time-
dependent plasticity (STDP), Biological neural circuits, Non-von Neumann computing approach, Learning
rules, Retina, Cochlea. (14 Lectures)
(Fractal 2)
Neuromorphic Computing: Spiking Neural Networks (SNN), Advanced nanodevices for neuron
implementation, Synaptic emulation - Non-volatile memory (NVM), Flash, RRAM, Memristors, CNT, Case
study on Intel’s Loihi neuromorphic chip. (14 Lectures)
(Fractal 3)
Hardware Implementation: Electronic synapses, Digital/Analog neuromorphic VLSI, Hardware
implementation of neuron circuits, Hardware implementation of synaptic and learning circuits, Synaptic
programming methodology optimization. (14 Lectures)
Text Books
1. S. C. LIU (2002), Analog VLSI: Circuits and Principles, MIT Press.
2. R. KOZMA (2012), Advances in Neuromorphic Memristor Science, Springer.
3. E. KANDEL (2012), Principles of Neural Science, McGraw Hill.
44
Systems
1. Software Testing and Quality Assurance 7xx
2. Distributed Database Systems 7xx
3. Distributed Systems 4xx
4. Mobile and Pervasive Computing 700
5. Edge and Fog Computing 4xx
6. Virtualization and Cloud Computing 700
7. Compiler Design 7xx
8. Software Maintenance 4xx
45
Course Title Software Testing and Quality Assurance Course No. CS7xxx
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech CSE Type Elective
Prerequisite Software Engineering
Objectives
1. The course provides an introduction to software engineering testing process, describes the quality assurance
process and its role in software engineering.
Learning Outcomes
1. The student will be able to work with various testing techniques, methods and tools.
2. The student will be able to demonstrate proficiency in managing a industry scale software project to customer
requirements.
3. Students will be able to describe the state of the art validation and verification techniques.
Contents
Overview and Basics: Software quality, Quality assurance and its context, Quality Engineering. (6 Lectures)
Software Testing: Concepts, Issues, and Techniques, Testing process, Testing levels such as unit, module,
subsystem, system; Automatic and Manual techniques for generating and validating test data, Static vs dynamic
analysis, Functional testing, Web application testing, Reliability assessment. (20 Lectures)
Quality Assurance beyond testing: Defect prevention and Process improvement, Software inspection, Formal
verification, Fault tolerance and Failure containment, Comparing quality assurance techniques and activities.
(8 Lectures)
Quantifiable Quality Improvement: Feedback loop and activities for Quantifiable quality improvement,
Quality model and measurements, Defect classification and analysis, Risk identification, Reliability
engineering. (8 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. J. TIAN (2005), Software Quality Engineering: Testing, Quality Assurance and Quantifiable Improvement,
Wiley.
2. P. AMMANN, J. OFFUTT (2016), Introduction to Software Testing, Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
46
Course Title Distributed Database Systems Course No. CS7XX
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Prerequisites Operating Systems, Database Systems, Computer
Networks, Data Communication
Objective
1. To understand and appreciate concepts of distributed database design, and its associated issues of consistency,
concurrency, optimization, integrity, reliability, privacy, and security.
Learning Outcome
1. Ability to understand the need for distributed database systems and its related complexities pertaining to
fragmentation, replication, availability, concurrency, consistency and recovery.
Contents
Introduction: Distributed data processing concepts, What is a DDBS - advantages, disadvantages and problem
areas. (2 Lectures)
Distributed Database Management System Architectures: Transparencies, Architecture, Global directory
concepts and issues. (3 Lectures)
Distributed Database Design: Design strategies, Design issues, Fragmentation, Data allocation. (4 Lectures)
Semantics Data Control: View management, Data security, Semantic integrity control. (5 Lectures)
Query Processing: Objectives, Characterization of processors, Layers of processing, Query decomposition, Data
localization. (5 Lectures)
Query Optimization: Factors, Centralized query optimization, Fragmented query ordering, Query
optimization algorithms. (5 Lectures)
Transaction Management: Goals, Properties, Models. (4 Lectures)
Concurrency Control: Concurrency control in centralized systems, Concurrency control in DDBSs - algorithms,
Deadlock management. (5 Lectures)
Reliability: Issues and types of failures, Reliability techniques, Commit protocols, Recovery protocols. (5
Lectures)
Other Avenues: Parallel database Systems, Multi-databases. (4 Lectures)
Reference Books
1. S. CERI, G. PELAGATTI (2008), Distributed Databases: Principles and Systems, McGraw-Hill, 1st Edition (2017
Reprint).
2. M.T. ÖZSU, P. VALDURIEZ (2011), Principles of Distributed Database Systems, Springer, 3rd Edition.
47
Course Title Distributed Systems Course No. CS4XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 2-0-0 [2]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Operating Systems
Objectives
1. To introduce issues, challenges and approaches related to distributed systems
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability in:
1. Designing, deploying and managing distributed systems
2. Understanding and analyzing various distributed algorithms and approaches
Contents
Introduction: Introduction to advanced operating systems and distributed systems. (2 Lectures)
Concurrency, Ordering, Races: Implementing Remote Procedure Calls, Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of events
in a distributed system, Distributed snapshots: Determining global states of distributed systems, Detecting
concurrency bugs: Eraser & TSVD. (8 Lectures)
File Systems and Disks: A Fast file System for UNIX, Scale and performance in a distributed file system, The
Design and implementation of a log-structured file system, A case for redundant arrays of inexpensive disks
(RAID). (6 Lectures)
Fault Tolerance: Implementing fault-tolerant services using the state machine approach, Paxos, Practical
Byzantine fault tolerance. (6 Lectures)
OS Kernels and Virtual Machines: Microkernels, System code verification, Kernels for multicore &
disaggregation, Virtual machines. (6 Lectures)
Text Books
1. T. ANDERSON, M.DAHLIN (2014), Operating Systems: Principles and Practice, Recursive Books, 2nd
Edition.
2. N. LYNCH (2009), Distributed Algorithms, Elsevier India.
Reference Books
1. W.R. STEVENS, S.A.RAGO (2013), Advanced Programming in the Unix Environment, Addison-Wesley, 3rd
Edition.
2. W.R. STEVENS, B. FENNER, A.M. RUDOFF (2004), Unix Network Programming: Networking APIs: Sockets
and XTI (Volume 1), Addison-Wesley, 3rd Edition.
Online References
1. http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/Classes/537/Spring2018/
2. Https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~15712/syllabus.html
48
Course Title Mobile and Pervasive Computing Course No. CS7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech and M. Tech Type Elective
Pre-requisites Computer Networks
Objectives
1. Explain necessary concepts to understand challenges in developing applications for mobile devices, when
contrasted with that of a general-purpose computer.
2. Introduce mechanisms employed by different cellular technologies, particularly 5G, and contrast them with
each other.
Learning Outcomes
At the end of this course, students would be able to:
1. Describe the working principles of various cellular technologies, as well as appreciate the associated
challenges.
2. Compare/contrast various aspects of Mobile and Pervasive Computing, viz. localization, sensing, security
and privacy concerns, application development, etc.
3. Implement the theoretical concepts into practical scenarios..
Contents
Overview of Wireless Systems: Infrastructure-based vs Ad-hoc, Wireless LANs, Cellular systems, Sensor
networks, Bluetooth, WiFi, WiMAX. (3 Lectures)
Medium Access: Link Adaptation, Routing Protocols. (4 Lectures)
Mobility and Handoff Management: Link layer mobility mechanisms (location management protocols),
Network layer mobility mechanisms (Macro and Micro mobility protocols), Handoff management protocols. (6
Lectures)
Cellular Networks: LTE and 5G overview, 5G Architecture, RAN and dynamic CRAN, Mobility management
and Network slicing in 5G. (11 Lectures)
Pervasive Computing: Principles, Characteristics, Pervasive devices, Smart sensors and actuators, Context
communication and access services. (4 lectures)
Context Aware Sensor Networks: Open protocols (SDP, Jini, SLP, UPnP), SyncML framework, Context aware
mobile services, Context aware security. (4 lectures)
Energy Efficiency, Localization (GPS/WiFi/GSM), Security (4 Lectures)
Recent Advances in Wearable devices (3 Lectures)
Body Area Networks (BAN) (3 Lectures)
Textbooks
1. I. STOJMENOVIC (2002), Handbook of Wireless Networks and Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Wiley.
2. S. LOKE (2006), Context-aware Pervasive Systems: Architectures for a New Breed of Applications, CRC
Press.
3. A. OSSEIRAN, J.F. MONSERRAT, P. MARSCH, (Eds.), 5G Mobile and Wireless Communications
Technology, Cambridge University Press, 2016.
Reference Books
1. R. KAMAL (2008), Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Oxford University Press, 3rd Edition.
2. L. MERK, M. NICLOUS (2006), Principles of Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Dreamtech Press, 2nd
Edition.
3. G. AGGELOU (2004), Mobile Ad hoc Networks: From Wireless LANs to 4G Networks, McGraw-Hill
Professional.
Self-learning Material:
1. J.J. DRAKE, Z. LANIER, C. MULLINER, P.O. FORA, S.A. RIDLEY, G. WICHERSKI (2014), Android
Hacker's Handbook, John Wiley, 1st Edition.
2. P. SINGH, NPTEL, IIIT Delhi: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106147/
3. Relevant research papers from MobiSys, Sensys, MC2R, MobiCom and UbiComp.
49
Course Title Edge and Fog Computing Course No. CS4xx
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Operating Systems, Computer Networks
Objectives
1. This course will introduce design concepts, frameworks, and applications in Edge Computing to the audience
Learning Outcomes:
1. To understand various edge devices and their ecosystems, issues and challenges
2. To develop edge-based distributed computing platforms and applications
Contents
Introduction of Edge and Fog Computing: Internet of Things (IoT) and New computing paradigms, Fog
computing: A platform for Internet of Things and analytics, Emergence of edge computing, Legal aspects of
operating IoT applications in the fog. (6 Lectures)
Edge Architecture: Multi-Tier cloud computing framework; Data services with clouds at home; Leveraging
mobile devices to provide cloud service at the edge; Fast, scalable and secure onloading of edge functions. (8
Lectures)
Networking for Edge & Fog: Integrating IoT + Fog + Cloud Infrastructures: System modeling and research
Challenges, Management and Orchestration of network slices in 5G, Fog, Edge, and Clouds. (6 Lectures)
System Design: Optimization problems in fog and edge computing, Middleware for fog and edge Computing:
Design issues, A Lightweight container middleware for edge cloud architectures. (8 Lectures)
Data Processing: Data management in fog computing, Predictive analysis to support fog application
deployment, Using machine learning for protecting the security and privacy of Internet of Things (IoT) systems,
fog Computing realization for Big data analytics. (8 Lectures)
Applications and Case Studies: Fog computing realization for Big data analytics, exploiting fog computing in
health monitoring, Smart surveillance video stream processing at the edge for real‐time human objects tracking,
Fog computing model for evolving smart transportation applications. (6 Lectures)
Text Book
1. R. BUYYA, S.N. SRIRAMA (2019), Fog and Edge Computing: Principles and Paradigms, Wiley-Blackwell,
2019.
50
Course Title Virtualization and Cloud Computing Course No. CS7xx
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Operating Systems, Computer Networks
Objectives
1. This course will introduce fundamentals of virtualization and concepts, frameworks, and applications in Cloud
Computing to the audience
Learning Outcomes
1. To understand various virtualization techniques and their features and limitations
2. To understand design and concepts of a cloud computing framework
Contents
Cloud Computing: Concept, Definition, Cloud Types and Service Deployment Models. (5 Lectures)
Virtualization: Concept, Definition, Types of Virtualization, Hardware Virtualization, Full and Para
Virtualization, Hypervisors, Hardware-assisted virtualization, operating system level virtualization,
application virtualization (10 Lectures)
Virtual and Physical Networking: Introduction, vSwitches, virtual NICs, Virtual Networking, virtual LAN (5
Lectures)
Storage Virtualization: Introduction, SAN/NAS versus storage virtualization. (4 Lectures)
Virtual Machine Management: Base Virtual Machine, Virtual CPUs, Sockets, Cores, Memory Scaling Up and
Scaling Down, USB Support, Virtual Disks, Live Migration. Security. (10 Lectures)
Containers: Concept, Definition, Docker, Container versus Virtualization, Portability, Remote deployment (5
Lectures)
Applications and Case Studies: Linux KVM, VirtualBox, Openstack. (3 Lectures)
Text Book
1. D.E. SARNA (2010), Implementing and Developing Cloud Computing Applications, CRC Press.
2. B.S. SODHI (2017), Topics in Virtualization and Cloud Computing, Ropar PB India, 2017.
Reference Book
1. B. FURHT, A. ESCALANTE (2010), Handbook of Cloud Computing (Vol. 3), Springer.
51
Course Title Compiler Design Course No. CSL7xx0
Department CSE Structure (L-T-P- 3-0-0-0 [3]
D[C])
Offered for B.Tech., M.Tech. Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite
Objectives
1. To introduce key challenges for modern compilers and runtime systems
2. To explain various optimization techniques of a typical compilation workflow.
Learning Outcomes
1. To learn about compilation techniques for obtaining high performance on modern computer
architectures.
2. To analyze and optimize various components of compilation stages
Contents
Representing Programs: Abstract Syntax Tree, Control Flow Graph, Dataflow Graph, Static Single Assignment,
Control Dependence Graph, Program Dependence Graph, Call Graph. (11 Lectures)
Analysis/Transformation Algorithms: Dataflow Analysis, Interprocedural analysis, Pointer analysis, Rule-
based analyses and transformations. Constraint-based analysis. (12 Lectures)
Applications: Scalar optimizations, Loop optimizations, Object-oriented optimizations, Register allocation,
Program verification, Bug finding. (8 Lectures)
Advanced Topics: Just-in-time compilation, Memory Management, EDGE architecture compilation, Power-
aware compilation, Machine specific optimizations (11 lectures).
Text Books
1. K.D. COOPER, L.TORCZON (2011), Engineering a Compiler, Morgan Kaufmann, 2nd Edition.
2. S. MUCHNICK (1998), Advanced Compiler Design Implementation, Morgan Kaufmann.
Reference Books
1. Y.N. SRIKANT, P.SHANKAR (Eds.) (2007), The Compiler Design Handbook: Optimizations and Machine
Code Generation, CRC Press, 2nd Edition.
2. A.V. AHO, M.S. LAM, R. SETHI, J.D. ULLMAN (2007), Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools,
Addison-Wesley, 2nd Edition.
3. R. ALLEN, K. KENNEDY (2001), Optimizing Compilers for Modern Architectures: A Dependence Based
Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 1st Edition.
4. M. WOLFE (1995), High-Performance Compilers for Parallel Computing, Addison-Wesley.
5. IEEE and ACM Digital Library.
Self Learning Material
1. NPTEL Lecture: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/108/106108052/
52
Course Title Software Maintenance Course No. CS4xx
Department Computer Science & Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Software Engineering
Objectives
1. To explain theories, models, tools, and processes for the maintenance and evolution of large software systems
and cloud applications
2. To familiarize with practices, techniques and processes that can help team build high quality software
Learning Outcomes
1. Understand the difficulties of developing code in a change context as opposed to new development
2. Identify the principal issues associated with software evolution and explain their impact on the software
lifecycle
3. Describe techniques, coding idioms and other mechanisms for implementing designs that are more
maintainable
Contents
Introduction: Basic concepts, difference between new development and maintenance, categorizing software
change and limitations, maintenance frameworks (4 lectures)
Understanding Software & Evolution: Program comprehension models: top-down, bottom-up, opportunistic;
Variants of software maintenance, relations to software engineering life-cycle, techniques of software evolution
and testing, quantitative analyses, empirical analyses, qualitative analyses of software, evolution dynamics (10
Lectures)
Software Maintenance: Maintenance processes: quick-fix model, boehm's model, osborne’s model, iterative
enhancement model, process maturity, Search-based Software Testing, Summarization Techniques for Code,
Changes, and Testing, Change impact analysis (7 Lectures)
Software Reuse: Reverse engineering levels & techniques: forward, restructuring, refactoring, reengineering,
software reuse and evolution, the laws of software evolution, reuse techniques and design for reuse, libraries
vs. application frameworks - Software product lines (7 Lectures)
Laboratory
Assignments/Projects on program comprehension and reverse engineering: program slicer, static analyser,
dynamic analyzer, dataflow analyser, cross-reference, dependency analyser, transformation tools; Testing tools:
simulators, test case generator, test path generators; source code, control system.
Text Books
1. Grubb, P., & Takang, A. A. (2003). Software maintenance: concepts and practice. World Scientific.
2. Galin, D. (2018). Software quality: concepts and practice. John Wiley & Sons..
Reference Book
Pigoski, T. M. (1996). Practical software maintenance: best practices for managing your
software investment. Wiley Publishing.
Online Courses
Reverse Engineering Essentials: Udemy, https://www.udemy.com/course/reverse-engineering-essentials/
53
Network and Security
1. Introduction to wireless ad hoc network 7xx
2. 5G Mobile Networks 7xx
3. Cryptography and Network Security 4xx
4. Software Defined Networks (CS/EE) 7xx
5. Introduction to Blockchain 7xx
6. Intelligent Radio Networks (EE) 7xx
7. Data Communication Networks (EE) 3xx
8. Cognitive Internet of Vehicles (EE) 7xx
9. Delay Tolerant Networks (EE) 7xx
54
Course Title Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc Network Course No. CS7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD Type Elective
Pre-requisites Computer Networks
Objectives
1. The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the wide applicability of Wireless Ad-Hoc
networks and their associated design issues and challenges.
2. It also sheds light on protocol design, mainly at the MAC layer.
Learning Outcomes
1. At the end of this course, students would be able to appreciate the mechanisms and interventions required at
different levels to make Wireless Ad-hoc networks work in practice.
2. They would be able to explain different MAC protocols and their issues.
3. Students would also be able to contrast transport layer design issues arising out of mobility, with the conventional
TCP.
Contents
Introduction to Wireless Ad-hoc Networks: Overview about Mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs), Vehicular Ad-
hoc networks (VANETs), Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) and Wireless Mesh Networks (WMNs). (2 Lectures)
Physical layer: Modulation techniques, Channel models, Case-study of 802.11a PHY. (3 Lectures)
Link Layer: Single-hop MAC protocols, multi-hop MAC protocols, Error correcting codes. (5 Lectures)
Network Layer: Mobile IP, Distributed wireless routing algorithms (AODV, DSDV, DSR, OLSR), Routing metrics.
(8 Lectures)
Transport Layer: TCP over wireless, Transport level mobility management, Multihop transport protocols. (6
Lectures)
Introduction to 5G networks (3 Lectures)
Low Power Wide Area Networks (LPWAN) for IoT: LoraWAN, NB-IoT, SigFox. (9 Lectures)
Personal Area Networks: Bluetooth. (3 Lectures)
Future trends in wireless networks: 802.11ax, 802.11ay, mm-Wave WiFi. (3 Lectures)
Note
Please note that the course material would not be taken from a single book or resource. It would be a combination
of textbook material, research papers and other sources.
Textbooks
1. W. STALLINGS (2009), Wireless Communications & Networks, Pearson Education India, 2nd Edition.
2. T.S. RAPPAPORT (2010), Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice, Prentice Hall, 2nd Edition.
Reference Books
1. C.S.R. MURTHY, B.S. MANOJ (2004), Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Architectures and Protocols, Pearson.
2. G. AGGELOU (2004), Mobile ad hoc networks: from wireless LANs to 4G networks, McGraw-Hill Professional.
3. S. BASAGNI, M. CONTI, S. GIORDANO, I. STOJMENOVIC, (Eds.), Mobile Ad hoc Networking, John Wiley,
2004.
4. A. GOLDSMITH (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge university press.
5. Recent relevant RFCs, Internet drafts, selected research papers from relevant venues: Mobicom, MobiSys,
SIGCOMM, Infocom, IEEE TMC, ACM MC2R.
Self-learning Material
1. S. MISHRA NPTEL, IIT Kharagpur: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105160/
2. Relevant research papers.
55
Course Title 5G Mobile Networks Course No. CS7XX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0
Offered for B.Tech Type Core
Pre-requisites Computer Networks, Ad-hoc Wireless
Networks
Objectives
The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the forthcoming 5G technology, and its
ability to transform the world for the better.
Learning Outcomes
1. Students would be able to appreciate the increasing role that SDNs play in 5G systems and beyond.
Contents
4G LTE networks: Introduction, overview and architecture. (4 Lectures)
From 4G to 5G : Why, When and How? (1 Lecture)
5G overview: Understanding 5GPP & NGMN, 5G architecture and design objective, 5G spectrum requirements,
SDN in the 5G context. (6 Lectures)
5G Core: 5G RAN & Dynamic CRAN, Virtual Network Functions in the 5G core, 5G NR Logical
Architecture, 5G Protocol Stack. (13 Lectures)
5G signalling: Millimeter wave propagation, Distributed massive MIMO principle, 5G Ultra dense cellular
networks, 5G Coordinated Multi-Point. (8 Lectures)
5G Mobile Edge computing & Fog computing (2 Lectures)
5G applications: Healthcare, Transportation, Smart cities, AR, VR. (2 Lectures)
5G vs mm-wave Wifi: A comparison. (2 Lectures)
India’s 5G policy and vision (1 Lecture)
The 6G vision (1 Lecture)
Paper discussions (2 Lectures)
Note
Please note that the course material would not be based on a single book or resource. It would be a combination
of textbook material, research papers and other sources from the Internet.
Textbooks
1. A. OSSEIRAN, J.F. MONSERRAT, P. MARSCH (Eds.) (2016), 5G Mobile and Wireless Communications
Technology, Cambridge University Press.
Reference Books
1. A. ELNASHAR, M.A. EL-SAIDNY, M. SHERIF (2014), Design, Deployment and Performance of 4G-LTE
Networks: A Practical Approach, John Wiley & Sons.
Self-learning Material
1. Relevant research papers.
56
Title Cryptography and Network Security Course No. CS 4XXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P 3–0–0 [3]
[C])
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite Maths for Computing and Computer
Networks
Objectives
1. The course deals with the underlying principles of Network security. It develops the mathematical tools
required to understand cryptography.
2. Provide fundamental understanding of the concepts related to information theoretic security, cryptographic
techniques and protocols.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design encryption techniques for information and network security.
2. Evaluate the security of communication systems, networks and protocols based on a multitude of security
metrics.
Contents
Introduction to Information Security: Schematic of secure communication systems, simple cryptosystems,
Cryptanalysis – attack models, attacks on different ciphers. (3 Lectures)
Shannon’s Approach to Cryptography: Perfect secrecy, entropy, One-time pad. (2 Lectures)
Symmetric Key Cryptography: Data Encryption Standard (DES) and differential cryptanalysis, The Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES). (5 Lectures)
Cryptographic Hash Functions: Definition of hash functions and properties, Unkeyed hash functions, Keyed
hash functions, Message Authentication Codes (MAC), The Random Oracle Model (ROM). (4 Lectures)
Authentication: A simple authentication protocol and possible attacks, Strong password protocols, BM
Encrypted Key Exchange (EKE), Key Distribution Centers (KDC), Certification authorities and certificate
revocation, KDC based authentication protocols. (6 Lectures)
Public Key Cryptosystems: RSA public key cryptosystem, The ElGamal public key cryptosystem and discrete
logs. (4 Lectures)
Digital Signatures: The Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA), Key distribution and Key agreement protocols,
Key pre-distribution, Diffie-Hellman key exchange. (8 Lectures)
Protocols: TCP/IP threats, The IPSEC protocol, The SSL and TLS protocols, Firewalls and Virtual Private
Networks (VPNs), Electronic mail security, Worms, DDoS attacks, BGB and security considerations. (10
Lectures)
Text Book
1. W. STALLINGS (2018), Network Security Essentials: Applications and Standards, Pearson, 6th Edition.
Reference Books
1. D. BONEH, V. SHOUP (2017), A Graduate Course in Applied Cryptography (Version 0.4).
2. M.B. PATERSON, D.R. STINSON (2018), Cryptography: Theory and Practice, CRC Press, 4th Edition.
3. C. KAUFMAN, R. PERLMAN (2016), Network Security: Private Communication in a Public World, Pearson,
2nd Edition.
Self-Learning Material
1. Network security, NPTEL Course Material Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Kharagpur:
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105031/
57
Title Introduction to Blockchain Course No. CSL 7XX
Departmen Computer Science and Engineering Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
t
Offered for B.Tech, MTech, PhD. Type Elective
Prerequisite Cryptography andNetwork Security
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Explain how blockchain technology works
2. Integrate blockchain technology into the current business processes to make them secure
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand what and why of Blockchain
2. Explore major components of Blockchain and Identify a use case for a Blockchain application
3. Create their own Blockchain network application
Contents
Introduction to Blockchain: Digital Trust, Asset, Transactions, Distributed Ledger Technology, Types of
network, Components of blockchain (cryptography, ledgers, consensus, smart contracts). (5 Lectures)
PKI and Cryptography: Private keys, Public keys, Hashing, Digital Signature. (6 Lectures)
Consensus: Byzantine Fault, Proof of Work, Proof of Stake. (6 Lectures)
Cryptocurrency: Bitcoin creation and economy, Limited Supply and Deflation, Hacks, Ethereum concept and
Ethereum classic. (10 Lectures)
Hyperledger Fabric: Hyperledger Architecture, Membership, Blockchain, Transaction, Chaincode, Hyperledger
Fabric, Features of Hyperledger, Fabric Demo. (8 Lectures)
Blockchain Applications: Building on the Blockchain, Ethereum Interaction - Smart Contract and Token
(Fungible, non-fungible), Languages, Blockchain-as-a-service. (6 Lectures)
Textbook
1. A. BAHGA, V. MADISETTI (2017), Blockchain Applications: A Hands-On Approach, VPT.
Self Learning Material
1. M. SWAN (2015), Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy, O’Reilly Media.
2. R. WATTENHOFER (2016), The Science of the Blockchain, CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform.
3. I. BASHIR (2017), Mastering blockchain, Packt Publishing Ltd.
4. K.E. LEVY, Book-smart, Not Street-smart: Blockchain-based Smart Contracts and the Social Workings of Law,
Engaging Science, Technology, and Society, vol. 3, pp. 1-15, 2017.
Preparatory Course Material
1. MIT Online Blockchain Course, Learn Blockchain Technology: https://getsmarter.mit.edu/
58
Course Title Software Defined Networks Course No. CS7XXX
Department Computer Science and Engineering/Electrical Structure (L-T-P-C) 2-0-0
Engineering
Offered for B.Tech Type Elective
Pre-requisites Computer Networks
Objectives
The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the basics of SDNs.
Learning Outcomes
1. The course would enable students to look forward to SDN applications such as in datacenters and 5G systems.
Contents
Networking basics: Switching, Addressing, Routing (2 lecture)
Switching Architecture: Data, control and management planes, hardware lookup, forwarding rules, dynamic
forwarding tables, autonomous switches and routers (4 lectures)
SDN Architectures: Plane Separation, Simple Device and Centralized Control, Network Automation and
Virtualization, Openness SDN Controllers, SDN Applications, Northbound and Southbound APIs (5 lectures)
OpenFlow: Switch-Controller Interaction, Flow Table, Packet Matching, Actions and Packet Forwarding,
Extensions and Limitations (3 lectures)
Network Function Virtualization: SDN vs. NFV, OPNFV, Inline Network Functions, Service Creation and
Chaining, NFV Orchestration (5 lectures)
Emerging SDN Models: Protocol Models, Controller Models, Application Models, SDN in Datacenters:
Multitenancy, Failure Recovery, SDN in Internet eXchange Points (IXPs) (4 lectures)
Data Center Networking in the context of SDN (5 lectures)
Note
Please note that the course material would not be based on a single book or resource. It would be a combination
of textbook material, research papers and other sources from the Internet.
Textbooks
1. P. GORANSSON, C. BLACK, T. CULVER (2016), Software Defined Networks: A Comprehensive Approach.
Morgan Kaufmann.
2. K. GRAY, T.D. NADEAU (2016), Network Function Virtualization, Morgan Kaufmann.
Self-learning Material
1. Relevant research papers.
59
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning
1. Artificial Intelligence (AIDE)
2. Deep Learning (AIDE)
3. Dependable Artificial Intelligence (AIDE)
4. Resource-Constrained AI (AIDE)
5. Advanced Machine Learning (AIDE)
6. Advanced Artificial Intelligence (AIDE)
7. Information Retrieval (AIDE)
8. Social Networks (AIDE)
9. Soft Computing Techniques (AIDE)
10. Autonomous Systems (IDRP)
11. Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulation in AI (AIDE)
12. Planning and Decision making for Robots (IDRP) (700)
60
Speech, Text and Vision
1. Digital Image Processing (AIDE)
2. Computer Graphics (AIDE)
3. Video Processing (AIDE)
4. Computer Vision (AIDE)
5. Introduction to AR and VR (AIDE)
6. Advanced Biometrics (AIDE)
7. Data Visualization (AIDE)
8. Natural Language Understanding (AIDE)
9. Speech Understanding (EE)
10. Principles of Biological Vision and Applications 7xx
61
Title Principles of Biological Vision and Number CS7XXX
Applications
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
The instructor will provide:
1. An account of various biological perception and cognitive processes.
2. Computational models for such processes
3. Examples of machine vision applications with such computational models.
Learning Outcomes
On completion of the course, the students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Appreciate the principles of biological perception and cognition.
2. Apply computational models for perception and cognition processes of biological vision in various machine
vision tasks.
Contents
(Fractal 1 (14 Lectures))
Introduction: Perception, reasoning and cognition; roles of knowledge, memory and learning. (2 Lectures)
Eye and early vision: Lateral Inhibition; convolution; detection of oriented edges; color, texture and motion
perceptions; peripheral vision. (4 Lectures)
Reasoning systems: Deductive, abductive and inductive reasoning; statistical property of nature; Bayesian
framework of reasoning; Bayesian networks; parameter estimation; on complexity of models and prior
probabilities; information integration; hierarchical Bayesian models and inductive generalization. (8 Lectures)
(Fractal 2 (14 lectures))
Late Vision: Depth perception; perceptual grouping; foreground-background separation; multi-stability;
models for object recognition; hierarchical models; visual quality and aesthetics. (5 Lectures)
Visual attention: cognitive, information-theoretic, Bayesian, context based and object-based attention models;
evaluation of attention models. (6 Lectures)
Introduction to cognitive architectures: Active vision; perceive-interpret-act cycles; modeling cognition
processes; roles of short-term and long-term memory; review of STAR architecture. (3 Lectures)
(Fractal 3 (14 lectures))
Knowledge Representation and learning: Role of knowledge in visual interpretation; memory, knowledge and
learning; short-term and long-term memory; structured and unstructured knowledge; semantic networks;
frame-based representation; symbol grounding problem; perceptual knowledge; unified framework for
conceptual and perceptual knowledge; learning in knowledge-based systems. (5 Lectures)
Neural networks for vision: Introduction to neural network; CNN for image classification and object detection;
knowledge representation in neural networks; RNN and life-long learning; LSTM; recurrent attention models;
reinforcement learning, meta-learning and multi-task learning; knowledge-infused learning; graph networks.
(6 Lectures)
Applications in machine vision tasks: Computational photography; digital heritage; social robots; smart
content delivery and re-purposing. (3 Lectures)
Textbook
1. H. GHOSH (In Press – expected Jun/Jul 2020), Computational Models for Cognitive Vision,, Wiley-IEEE Press.
Reference Material
Research literature to be announced in class.
62
Social and Sustainable Computing
1. Social Computing (3-0-0)
2. Sustainable Computing (3-0-0)
3. ICT for Development (2-0-0)
4. Machine Learning in Epidemiology (3-0-0)
5. Health Informatics (3-0-0)
6. Computational Social Choice Theory (3-0-0)
7. Computational Cognition and Behavior Modelling (3-0-0)
8. Crowd-sourcing and human-computing (3-0-0)
9. Environmental Informatics (3-0-0)
10. Computational Microeconomics (3-0-0)
63
Title Social Computing Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite Data Structure and Algorithms
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the fundamental and current challenges in social computing.
2. Explain how to design social computing systems to be effective and responsible.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Explore social computing systems, get experience with social data analyses and focus on design, and
evaluation of a social software as their final project for the course.
2. Engage in the creation of new computationally-mediated social environments.
Contents
Introduction and overview Social Software: Introduction, Different types of social software like blogging,
microblogging, Q&A, Forum, Wiki etc. [3 Lectures]
Social information processing : Tagging, Social Navigation, Social Search, Social Bots [4 Lectures]
Group collaboration: Wikis and Wikipedia, Computer supported collaboration tools, Content sharing, Open
source software development [6 Lectures]
Recommender systems : Content based, collaborative filtering, challenges of social information processing [5
Lectures]
Social data analysis : Visualization, Sense-making, APIs, Facebook, Wikipedia, Twitter [6 Lectures]
Social capital : Definitions and measures, Social capital and social networks, Role of online communities on
social capital [6 Lectures]
Challenges of online communities: Dealing with newcomers, under-contribution problem Encouraging
contributions to online communities, Strategies supported by social science theories [8 Lectures]
Social computing, cities, and society: Impact on physical and psychological well-being, Connection to real world,
Equality of participation [4 Lectures]
Text Book
1. Becker, Howard S. Writing for social scientists: How to start and finish your thesis, book, or article.
University of Chicago Press, 2008.
Reference Books
1. Bail et al (2018). Exposure to opposing views on social media can increase political polarization.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 115(37), 9216-9221.
2. Dubois, E., & Blank, G. (2018). The echo chamber is overstated: the moderating effect of political interest
and diverse media. Information, Communication & Society, 21(5), 729-745.
3. Salganik, M. J., & Watts, D. J. (2009). Web-based experiments for the study of collective social dynamics in
cultural markets. Topics in Cognitive Science, 1(3), 439-468.
Self-Learning Material
1. Social Computing, IIT Kharagpur, http://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~pawang/courses/SC16.html
64
Title Sustainable Computing Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite PRML / Introduction to Machine Learning
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Describe ways to leverage networking, sensing, and computational strategies to help address sustainability
issues related to biodiversity, climate, environment, urban design, transportation, buildings and others.
2. Draw from professional experiences to ground all topics and discussions in “real world” examples.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Gain an understanding of how data and computation can be used to identify root causes of sustainability
challenges, create targeted strategies to address them, engage stakeholders, and track and communicate
progress.
2. Develop skills to design metrics and solutions for evaluation of progress towards sustainability goals.
3. Comprehend the power and shortcomings of data in communicating complex sustainability issues.
Contents
Introduction, SDG goals, & Sustainability metrics: Humanity and the environment, Sustainability,
Dimensions of sustainable design, Sustainability metrics. [3 Lectures]
Climate: Computational techniques for weather predictions & models of climate variance. [5 Lectures]
Biosphere: Species distribution modelling; Aggregate phenomena modelling; Ecosystem modelling; Animal
identification; Case study: Green Security games, Bird Returns program. [6 Lectures]
Health, Food & Water: Health/medical informatics & Telemedicine; Poverty mapping, Food & Farm
optimization; Modelling for water distribution. [6 Lectures]
Insuring impact with technology for Education & Gender equality. [3 Lectures]
Usability & HCI for assistive technologies. [3 Lectures]
Green technology & E-waste. [2 Lectures]
Sustainable energy systems: Energy-constrained scheduling, Electricity demand & renewable resource
prediction, Models for energy consumption, Smart grid. [4 Lectures]
IT energy efficiency: Measure energy efficiency of computer system components in sync with solution
frameworks; Energy consumption estimation of whole systems; Energy efficiency metrics; Sustainable
resource management techniques for cloud computing, edge/fog computing, high-performance computing,
wearable computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), and cyber-physical systems; Sustainable data centers. [10
Lectures]
Text Books
1. Theis, T., & Tomkin, J. (2015). Sustainability: A Comprehensive Foundation. OpenStax CNX.
2. Issa, T., & Isaias, P. (2015). Sustainable Design: HCI, Usability and Environmental Concerns. Springer-Verlag
London.
3. Green & Sustainable Computing - Part I & II. Elsevier.
Reference Material
1. Gomes, C. et al. (2019). Computational Sustainability: Computing for a Better World and a Sustainable
Future. Communications of the ACM, 62(9),56-65.
2. Sustainability Metrics Reading List: https://afddf8e8-2dfc-4526-9ba6-
71e1899413f3.filesusr.com/ugd/571f98_b203aa22d378452b986dbc667acb13b7.pdf.
3. Reading List: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs6702/2011sp/.
4. Reading List: https://www.coursera.org/learn/sustainability#syllabus
65
Title ICT for Development Number CS L4XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 2-0-0 [2]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Facilitate an interactive platform for students to discuss and learn ICT strategies for various problems.
2. Reflect upon his/her own experiences in deploying ICT solutions in social settings and the associated
challenges.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Appreciate the potential that ICT possesses to make an impact on the society.
2. Learn through various case studies, that different problem settings require different solution approaches.
Contents
From the origins of ICTD to Big data and development [3 lectures]
Development theory and the critiques of ICTD [4 lectures]
Localization techniques and Identity management [3 lectures]
ICTD: knowledge economies and development [3 lectures]
e-learning and development [2 lectures]
e-governance and development [2 lectures]
ICTs and Environment sustainability [2 lectures]
Building sustainable rural information service networks [2 lectures]
Sustainability failures of rural telecentres [1 lecture]
ICT for Agriculture [2 lecture]
ICTD: Information sharing practices [1 lecture]
ICTD for community networks and disaster management [2 lectures]
ICT4D: the future [1 lecture]
Text books
1. Heeks, R. (2017). Information and communication technology for development (ICT4D). Routledge.
2. References
3. https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/study/course/ICT_Development_Reading_List.pdf
4. http://act4d.iitd.ernet.in/act4d/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=33&Itemid=42
5. https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/kursplan/IV1009-20082.pdf?lang=en
6. https://www.manchester.ac.uk/study/masters/courses/list/06237/msc-icts-for-development/course-
details/MGDI60701#course-unit-details
7. Self-Learning Material
66
Title Machine Learning in Epidemiology Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite Introduction to Machine Learning/ PRML
Objectives
Course focuses on advances in machine learning and its application to causal inference and prediction via
Targeted Learning, which allows the use of machine learning algorithms for prediction and estimating so-
called causal parameters, such as average treatment effects, optimal treatment regimes, etc.
Learning Outcomes
On completion of the course the students will have:
1. Ability to apply machine learning algorithms to prediction problems and estimate and derive inference
for the resulting fit.
2. Ability to use the fits of machine learning algorithms to estimate causal effects using simple substitution
estimators.
3. Knowledge of How the general methodology applies to goals of Precision Medicine.
Contents
Introduction: Introduction to epidemiology, statistical methodologies in epidemiologic studies, curse of
dimensionality in epidemiology, Relation between ML and epidemiology, more on epidemiology. [4 Lectures]
Prediction of Observational Epidemiology: Clinical Decision Support, Disease Surveillance, Introduction to
Targeted Machine Learning. [4 Lectures]
Causal Inference: Understanding bias, Correlation vs. causalty, Causal graph inference. [4 Lectures]
Super-Learning: Parametric Models, Data Adaptivity, Performance Measure on Independent Data,
Customizable Optimality criterion, Sequential super learning. [8 Lectures]
Target Update of Machine Learning: TMLE, HAL, HAL-TMLE, C-TMLE, TMLE with Clustering, On-line
super learning, On-line targeted learning for time series. [14 Lectures]
Case Studies in Epidemiology: Ebola, Corona etc. [4 Lectures]
Future Directions: Deep learning in clinical epidemiology, Recurrent unit neural networks to identify
individuals at risk. [4 Lectures]
Reference Books
1. Van der Laan & Rose (2018), Targeted Learning in Data Science Causal Inference for Complex
Longitudinal Studies, Springer
2. Van der Laan & Rose (2011), Targeted Learning in Causal Inference for Observational and Experimental
Data, Springer
Reference Articles
1. Timothy L. Wiemken, Robert R. Kelley (2020), Machine Learning in Epidemiology and Health Outcomes
Research, Annual Review of Public Health, 41(1), 21-36
2. Goldstein, N. D., LeVasseur, M., & McClure, L. A. (2020). On the Convergence of Epidemiology,
Biostatistics, and Data Science. Harvard Data Science Review.
3. Char DS, Shah NH, Magnus D. (2018), Implementing machine learning in health care- Addressing ethical
challenges, New England Journal of Medicine; 378-981 (3).
4. Chiavegatto Filho ADP, Dos Santos HG, do Nascimento CF, Massa K, Kawachi I. (2018), Overachieving
municipalities in public health: A machine learning approach, Epidemiology; 29-836-40.
https://medium.com/causal-data-science/causal-data-science-721ed63a4027
5. Other relevant articles
67
Title Health Informatics Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite Data Structure and Algorithms
Objectives
1. Develop knowledge about problems and challenges that health informatics addresses
2. To develop an understanding of different types of data exchange formats and standards techniques for
different purposes.
3. To equip the students with various possible applications of the digital data analysis in healthcare.
Learning Outcomes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply basic knowledge to the research and practice of health informatics
2. Demonstrate basic skills and knowledge in health informatics for application in future health-related
careers
3. Utilize the tools and techniques for collecting, storing, securing, retrieving, and reporting health care data
and information
Contents
Introduction: Overview, health data, information, and knowledge, electronic health records, system
architecture for EHRs, ambulatory EHR functions and interoperability, personal health records and decision
aids. [6 lectures]
Health Care Information Systems: Healthcare data standards - Overview, methods, protocols, terminologies,
and specifications for the collection, exchange, storage, and retrieval of information associated with health care
applications. [6 lectures]
Data Collection and Quality Assurance: Data collection, cleaning data, managing change, Using Data for Care
Delivery, Coordination, and Quality Improvement, Quality assurance, Security, Privacy. [8 lectures]
Clinical Data: Introduction, medical digital data formats and exchange, medical image formats such as
DICOM in the context of health informatics. [4 lectures]
Informatics: Information retrieval, bioinformatics - usage of informatics in genomics and other aspects of
molecular biology, patient case history analytics, applications in public health, ethical issue in health
informatics. [8 lectures]
Medical Diagnostic Decision Support: probabilistic approaches, clinical scores, logical approaches - expert
system, inference engines, case studies. [6 Lectures]
Digital healthcare: Telemedicine, mobile for health, public health [4 lectures]
Text Books
1. Hoyt, R. E., & Yoshihashi, A. K. (2014). Health informatics: practical guide for healthcare and information
technology professionals. Lulu. com
2. Hersh, W. R., & Hoyt, R. E. (2018). Health Informatics: Practical Guide Seventh Edition. Lulu. com
Reference Material
1. Landais, P., Boudemaghe, T., Suehs, C., Dedet, G., Lebihan-Benjamin, C., Venot, A., ... & Quantin, C.
(2014). Medical Informatics, e-Health: Fundamentals and Applications.
2. Healthcare data standards, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK216088/
3. Data Collection and Quality Assurance, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK208601/
4. Computer-aided diagnosis medical image analysis techniques,
https://www.intechopen.com/books/breast-imaging/computer-aided-diagnosis-medical-image-
analysis-techniques
Self-Learning Material
1. Health Informatics Specialization, Coursera Online, https://www.coursera.org/specializations/health-
informatics
68
Title Computational Social Choice Theory Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Familiarize with mechanisms for collective decision making
2. Focus on interface of social choice theory with theoretical computer science
3. Enable students to conduct research in this fast-growing field
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Understand the problems and research directions in computational social choice.
2. Mathematically formulate the problems that arise in society, and design efficient rules for these problems.
3. Analyse computational complexity of problems in social choice.
Contents
Introduction to Voting Theory: social choice functions, voting rules and their axiomatic study. [5 Lectures]
Computational hardness and Algorithms for voting rules: Condorcet, minimax, Dodgson’s rule, and Kemeny.
[5 lectures]
Manipulation in Voting: various means of manipulation: strategic voting, bribery, control, computational
hardness and algorithms. [7 lectures]
Multiwinner Election: voting rules and their computational complexity. [4 lectures]
Matching under preferences: introduction to stable matching, Gale-Shapley algorithm, hospital/resident
problem, stable roommate problem. [8 lectures]
Manipulation in Matching: means of manipulations, computational hardness and algorithms. [3 lectures]
Introduction to Fair Allocation: basic terminologies, fairness and efficiency criteria. [4 lectures]
Fair Allocation of goods: fair allocation of indivisible and divisible goods. [6 lectures]
Text Book
1. Brandt, F., Conitzer, V., Endriss, U., Lang, J., & Procaccia, A.D. (2016). Handbook of Computational Social
Choice. Cambridge University Press.
2. Gusfield, D., & Irving, R.W. (1989). The Stable Marriage Problem: Structure and Algorithms. MIT press
3. Manlove, D. (2013). Algorithmics Of Matching Under Preferences. World Scientific
4. Reference Books
5. Endriss, U. (2017). Trends in Computational Social Choice. Lulu. com
6. Lecture Notes on Fair Division by U. Endriss
69
Title Computational Cognition & Behavior Modelling Number CS L4XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite Probability & Statistics, PRML
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Draw on formal models from classic and contemporary artificial intelligence to explore fundamental issues
in human cognition and behavior.
2. Encourage students to explore answers to questions on cognition and behavior (e.g., What are the different
forms that our knowledge of the world takes? How does this lead to behaviour?) and ways to model them
3. Help students develop an understanding of how computational modeling can advance cognitive science,
how cognitive science can contribute to research in machine learning and AI, and how to fit and evaluate
cognitive models to understand behavioral data.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Demonstrate knowledge of basic concepts and methodologies of cognitive and behavioral modelling - be
able to design simple models for sample problems.
2. Demonstrate understanding of the relationship between computational models and psychological
theories - critically assess the psychological adequacy of a given model.
3. Qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate computational models of cognition and behavior.
4. Extend the understanding of these models to the design of architectures for social cognitive agents for
applications such as autonomous driving, and assistive robotics.
Contents
Fractal 1 [Computational Modelling Techniques for Cognition and Behavior]
Introduction [1 Lecture]: The motivation underlying the computational modelling of cognition, and the possible
questions that can be answered
Probabilistic approaches to modelling cognition & behavior [4 lectures]: Bayesian inference, hierarchical Bayesian
models, probabilistic graphical models
Inductive Logic Programming & Language of thought models. [3 Lectures]
Deep learning, reinforcement learning for modelling cognition. [3 Lectures]
Information sampling & Active learning. [3 Lectures]
Fractal 2 [Cognition Modelling]
The mind as an information-processing system - Marr's levels of analysis (computational, algorithmic,
implementation) [1 Lecture]
Structure and formation of intuitive theories of cognition of physical, biological and social systems; Learning
causal relations. [3 Lectures]
Symbolic (rule-based), subsymbolic (probabilistic) & connectionist (network-based) models of cognition [3
Lectures]
Methodology and issues in the development and evaluation of cognitive models [7 Lectures]: Which psychological data
are relevant? How do we collect such data (e.g., EEG, Eye-tracker; across ages & genders)? What predictions
can be made by the models of cognition? How can these predictions be tested? - Some possible example models:
language processing, memory, reasoning, categorization.
Fractal 3 [Behavioral Modelling]
Introduction [4 Lectures]: Brain & behavior; Understanding social behavior; General motivation underlying
computational modelling of behavior
Symbolic (rule-based), subsymbolic (probabilistic) & connectionist (network-based) approaches to behavior
modelling [3 Lectures]
Methodology and issues in the development and evaluation of behavioral models [7 Lectures]: Which behavioral data
are relevant? How do we collect such data (e.g., EEG, Eye-tracker; across ages, genders & societies)? What
predictions can be made? How do these predictions apply to assistive system design?
70
Text Books
1. Russell, S. J., & Norvig, P. (2020). Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 4th Edition. Prentice Hall.
2. Farrell, S., & Lewandowsky, S. (2018). Computational Modeling of Cognition and Behavior. Cambridge
University Press.
Reference Material
1. Issa, T., & Isaias, P. (2015). Sustainable Design: HCI, Usability and Environmental Concerns. Springer-
Verlag London.
2. McClelland, J. L., & Rogers, T. T. (2003). The parallel distributed processing approach to semantic
cognition. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 4(4), 310-322.
3. Peterson, J., Abbott, J., & Griffiths, T. (2016). Adapting deep network features to capture psychological
representations. Presented at the 38th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.
4. Tenenbaum, J. B., Kemp, C., Griffiths, T. L., & Goodman, N. D. (2011). How to grow a mind: Statistics,
structure, and abstraction. Science, 331(6022), 1279-1285.
5. Griffiths, T.L., Lieder, F., & Goodman, N.D. (2015). Rational use of cognitive resources: Levels of analysis
between the computational and the algorithmic. Topics in Cognitive Science, 7(2), 217-229.
6. Wilson, R.C. and Collins, A.G.E. (2019). Ten simple rules for the computational modeling of behavioral
data. eLife 2019, 8:e49547.
7. Goodman, N. D., Tenenbaum, J. B., & Gerstenberg, T. (2014). Concepts in a probabilistic language of
thought. Center for Brains, Minds and Machines (CBMM).
71
Title Crowd-sourcing and human-computing Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Program Elective
Prerequisite Social Computing, Data Structures & Algorithms
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. familiarize with the techniques to manage the crowd
2. focus on building intelligent systems that involve a combination of computers and humans collaborating
seamlessly over the Internet
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Program the crowd
2. Apply usability principles for designing crowd tasks that elicit high-quality responses
3. Use statistical methods to improve the quality of the work received
4. Build systems that interface with crowd labor in real time
Contents
Introduction to Crowdsourcing and Human Computation: introduction, history, connections to social
computing, collective intelligence, and management science [4 lectures]
Human Computation Algorithms: design patterns, case study, discussion [4 lectures]
Usability Engineering for CrowdSourcing: input-agreement mechanisms, output-agreement mechanisms [4
lectures]
Gold Standards: consensus algorithms, incentive mechanisms, gamification [6 lectures]
Real-time crowdsourcing: queuing theory for predicting worker availability, ensemble learning, crowd agents
[6 lectures]
Crowdsourcing Subjective Tasks: social Q&A, expertise in crowdsourcing, local crowdsourcing /
community sourcing, crowd funding, citizen science [6 lectures]
Task Routing: push and pull approaches [4 lectures]
Crowds & Applications: Crowds: mechanical turk, social media; Applications: computer vision, NLP [8
lectures]
Text Book
1. Law, E., & Ahn, Ahn, L. (2012). Human Computation: An Integrated Approach to Learning from the
Crowd, Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
2.
Reference Books
1. Ghosh, A., Lease, M., (2016). Human Computation and Crowdsourcing. Proceedings of the Fourth AAAI
Conference
2. Lease M., Alonso O. (2018) Crowdsourcing and Human Computation: Introduction. In: Alhajj R., Rokne J.
(eds) Encyclopedia of Social Network Analysis and Mining. Springer, New York.
Self-Learning Material
72
Title Environmental Informatics Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All) Type Elective
Prerequisite
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce techniques for environmental modeling, environmental databases and information systems.
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Apply the techniques for environment modeling on typical applications of environment monitoring and
protection.
2. Appreciate the multidisciplinary nature of environmental problems.
Contents
Introduction to Environmental Informatics: environmental objects, characterisation of an environmental
system, environmental metadata. [2 lectures]
Data capture and data storage: introduction, object taxonomies, mapping the environment, advanced
techniques. [3 lectures]
Environmental sampling: sampling design, essentials for sampling of environmental data, satellite imagery [4
lectures]
Hydrological Modeling: Rainfall-Runoff models, Precipitation Models, Climate Models. [4 lectures]
Geographical information systems [4 lectures]
Environmental data analysis: Scales of operation of environmental data, re-sampling of environmental data,
approximation of environmental data, trend estimation of environmental data [7 lectures]
Environmental statistics: probability distributions of environmental data, statistical measures, statistical tests,
regression and correlation [6 lectures]
Environmental time series: fourier analysis, stationary processes, time correlation functions, frequency
functions [7 lectures]
Environmental simulation models: modelling procedure, types and classification of mathematical models,
process identification, an eutrophication simulator. [5 lectures]
Text Book
1. Günther, O., (1989). Environmental Information Systems. Springer, Berlin.
2. Box, G. E. P., Jenkins, G. M. & Reinsel, G. C., (1994). Time Series Analysis. 5th ed., Prentice Hall,
Englewood Cliffs.
Reference Books
Avouris, N. M. and Page, B. (eds.), (1995). Environmental Informatics – Methodology and Applications of
Environmental Information Processing. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
73
Title Computational Microeconomics Number CS L7XX0
Department Computer Science and Engineering L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech (All Branches) Type Program Elective
Prerequisite Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Objectives
The Instructor will:
1. Familiarize with the market design
2. Focus on algorithms to clear the market
3. Familiarize with the algorithmic game theory
Learning Outcomes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design market
2. Use computer science knowledge to solve economic problems
Contents
Introduction to Market Design: introduction to various types of auctions, bidding languages, matching
market, voting. [6 lectures]
Auction: Myerson’s Lemma, Knapsack auction, revenue-maximising auction, exchanges. [8 lectures]
Matching Market: Kidney exchange, stable matching, various notions of optimal matching. [8 lectures]
Noncooperative Game Theory: self-interested agents, price of anarchy, non-atomic and atomic models of
selfish routing. [5 lectures]
Games in Normal Form: pareto optimality, nash equilibria, various solution concepts and their computation.
[10 lectures]
Games in Extensive Form: backwards induction, subgame perfect equilibrium, imperfect information,
equilibrium refinements, computing equilibria. [5 lectures]
Text Book
1. Shoham, Y. & Brown, K.L., (2008), Multiagent systems: Algorithmic, game-theoretic, and logical foundations,
Cambridge University Press.
Reference Books
1. Roughgarden, T. (2016), Twenty lectures on algorithmic game theory, Cambridge University Press.
Self Learning Material
1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TM_QFmQU_VA
74


--- SOURCE: department.txt ---

Swapnil Thatte, Paromita Banerjee, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, Bhanu Duggal, and Angshuman Paul submitted an Indian patent on "MFA-U-Net: U-Net with Multi-level Feature Aggregation for Scale-free Medical Image Segmentation," funded by TiH iHub Drishti.
Jayant Vyas (Ph.D. student) selected as research intern (April - October) @ Accenture Labs
Jayant Vyas selected for student travel award for IEEE VTC 2023 Conference
Anand Mishra has been recognized as one of the Outstanding Reviewers at CVPR 2023.
The Department of CSE welcomes its Executive M.Tech AI students for a campus immersive experience from August 1 - 5, 2022.
ACM-W India Grad Cohort 2022 hosted by Department of CSE from July 21-22, 2022.
Cyber-Physical Systems Innovator-Expert - Dr. Aloknath De, and IBM Distinguished Engineer - Dr. Sameep Mehta join us as Adjunct Faculty.
Richa Singh is the Program Chair at ICMI 2022
IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur proudly present their first joint patent on Automatic Speech Generation systems to help the differently-abled to communicate using vocal expressions; work done by Dr. Sumit Kalra (CSE, IITJ) and team.
Work on NextGen Telemedicine by Dr. Sumit Kalra and Team was featured in the national meeting on "Discussion on COVID-19 Awareness in the Rural Population with Regional Coordinating Institutes", organized by Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (National Coordinator, IIT Delhi).
Covid-19 initiatives by CSE @ IIT Jodhpur, highlighted in the July edition (Vol. IV, Issue 6) of Vigyan Prasar.
Prof. S. Sanadhya invited as expert panelist for webinar (organized by IITJ and WhizHack) on "Building Global Career in Cyber Defense" on June 26, 2021.
Prof. S. Sanadhya invited as expert panelist for webinar (organized by IITJ and WhizHack) on "Building Global Career in Cyber Defense" on June 19, 2021.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya invited as panelist for discussions on "How to become a successful Cyber Defense Professional" on May 19, 2021, 5-6pm (IST).
Dr. Angshuman Paul joins as Assistant Professor!
Prof. Richa Singh to serve as Program Co-Chair for CVPR-2022.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya to serve as organizing chair for the 18th IFIP WG 11.9 international conference on digital forensics 2022.
Prof. M. Vatsa invited for Q&A session on "'Skilling and Opportunities in AI' by DST, Rajasthan.
Dr. Pallavi Jain to present at AAMAS 2021
Ms. Pratibha Choudhary will defend her Thesis on March 18, 2021 at 06:00 PM through online mode
Dr. A. Mishra will be presenting a poster on 'Multimodal Machine Learning for Enhanced Image Understanding' under the 'Machine Learning and Big Data Analytics Track', as an invited participant at the 11th Indo German Frontier of Engineering Conference (INDOGFE 2021) - 24-26 Feb 2021.
The AAAI-21 First International Workshop on Meta-Learning for Computer Vision (MeL4CV)" organized by M. Vatsa, R. Singh, N. Ratha, V. Patel, S. Mittal, on February 08, 2021.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya was invited as panelist on a discussion on "Security Research Bottleneck ... Lab, Program Set-up, Problem Statements, Industry Connects, & Data Sets" in the 'Security, Education, Research and Innovation (SERI 2020) Conference, organized by the Data Security Council of India (DSCI), on December 14, 2020. 16 December 2020
Panel Discussion on "Higher Studies as a Career Strategy" 31 October 2020
Suman Kundu was a Panel Member at the Workshop on Digital Humanities into the Palm of Your Hand in IEEE BigMM. Presented: "Identification of Cyberbully from Multilingual Indian Tweets" Date: Sep 26, 2020
Anil Shukla joins the department as Assistant Professor on 08 May 2017
Manas Khatua joins the department as Assistant Professor on 28 December 2016
Aritra Banik joins the department as Assistant Professor on 07 March 2016
Visit of Anil Bhansali, MD, Microsoft India (R&D)
Ph.D. Thesis Defense
Visit of 6-member Research & Development team from LG Software India Labs, on 30-31, July 2015
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay joins the department as Assistant Professor on 13 July 2015

Anand Mishra served as a session chair and a workshop chair at ICFHR 2022.
"Debasis Das gave talks on "Machine Learning in Vehicular Communications/ Networks and Security aspects in Vehicular Communications" at the SERB Karyashala on “Vehicular Communications for Next-Generation Intelligent Transportation Systems” at IIT Indore from 13th July 2022 to 19th July 2022.
Angshuman Paul gives a talk on data-efficient machine learning methods for medical image analysis at the CSI Kolkata Chapter.
Anghuman Paul delivers talk on 'Application of Machine/Deep Learning" on June 16 at the Indian Statistical Institute.
Dr. Manish Gupta (Microsoft) to deliver talk on "Deep Learning Models for NLP" at the Semi-monthly Departmental Webinar on May 6, 2022
Somitra Sanadhya and Suman Kundu gave talks at the "Cyber Jaagrukta Diwas" on May 4, 2022 - organized by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Home Affairs
Rajesh Sharma, Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu (UT), Estonia to talk on "Application of Data Science for Social Science" on May 2, 2022.
Vinay Kulkarni, TCS Research, Pune talks on "Applied research with Enterprise focus - rationale, progress so far, and open challenges" on April 18, at the CSE Department semi-monthly webinar.
Karthik Mohan to talk on "Learning case-studies: Recommender systems for online shopping and Task-oriented Natural Language Generation system" on March 25, 2022 at the CSE Department semi-monthly webinar
Anand Mishra gives talk at the preconference workshop on multimodal interactions at ICMI 2022
Brijesh Pillai and Aratrik Chatterjee from Mercedes Benz RD Pvt. Ltd, Bangalore, to talk on 'Intelligent Occupant sensing in Car Interiors' on November 12, 2021.
Dr. Sushmita Gupta from IMSc, Chennai to talk on 'Matching under preferences: Stability to popularity' on October 29, 2021.
Prof. S. Sanadhya to deliver a talk on post-quantum crypto in a webinar by CDoT on Tuesday from 2-4:30pm. Meeting link @ www.cdot.in
Dr. Angshuman Paul presented a tutorial on 'Meta-Learning for Medical Image Analysis' at MICCAI 2021.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya to speak at the International Webinar session on How to build the fastest track for a Global Career in Cyber Defense on 6th Oct 2021.
Dr. Sumit Kalra invited as speaker to talk on Innovations in Healthcare in the India-Sweden Innovation Challenge organized by AIIMS Jodhpur in collaboration with Business Sweden on 24th September.
Prof. Mayank Vatsa to speak on Human-Machine Interaction on September 17, 2021 in the 'Going Virtual' session (2:30pm-6:00pm) at the Global Virtual Technology Summit 2021, presented by PANIIT.
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay presented an "Introduction to Immersive Technology (AR/VR) and its Application" at the Open Innovation Tech Series - VILT Session, organized by Samsung, on August 27, 2021.
Dr. Amit Sethi (IIT Bombay) to talk on "Towards Precision Oncology using Machine Learning on Medical Images" on September 10, 2021 @5pm (IST).
Dr. Angshuman Paul, IIT Jodhpur, to talk on Data-efficient Machine Learning for the Diagnosis of Chest Radiographs, at the Department Webinar, on August 27, 2021 at 5pm (IST)
Pallavi Jain was invited at Dagstuhl seminar on Matching Under Preferences: Theory and Practice. She also gave a talk on Almost Stable Marriage in the seminar on July 29, 2021.
Prof. M. Vatsa invited as expert panelist on CL Educate Presents Academia Connect (Nvidia Technology Partner) for a talk on "Path to Making India the AI Factory and Resource Pool for the World", on June 23, 2021.
Prof. Salil Kanhere, UNSW Sydney, to talk on Transparent, Trustworthy and Privacy-Preserving Supply Chains, at the Department Webinar, on June 04, 2021 at 11am (IST).
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya invited as panelist for discussions on "How to become a successful Cyber Defense Professional" on May 19, 2021, 5-6pm (IST).
Mr. Bharatkumar Sharma, Nvidia, to talk on "Powering of New Era Analytics and AI using GPU", at the Department Webinar, on May 21, 2021 at 6pm (IST).
Dr. Shridhara Chimalakonda to talk on "What is software engineering anyway? Reflections on 50 Yrs of software engineering & the Road Ahead" on May 7, 2021 at 6pm (IST).
Prof. Kalyanmoy Deb, Koenig Endowed Chair Professor - Michigan State University, to talk on "Explainable AI (XAI) using Nonlinear Decision Trees" at the CSE Department Webinar on April 30, 2021 at 7pm (IST).
Mr. Vinay Kulkarni, Distinguished Chief Scientist - TCS research, to talk on "Decision-making in the face of uncertainty" at the CSE Department Webinar, on April 09, 2021 at 6pm (IST)
Prof. R. Singh and Prof. M. Vatsa to talk on "Dependable Computer Vision" on April 13, 2021 at Nvidia GTC 21
Dr. Heena Rathore, University of Texas, SA, USA, to talk about "Brain Variable Reward Structure for Cooperative Machine Learning in IoT Network" on March 19, 2021 at 6:00 pm, IST.
Prof. S. Sanadhya delivered an invited talk on the "Foundational Role of Mathematics in Cryptography" at the 31st Annual Conference of Rajasthan Ganita Parishad on Recent Trends of Mathematics in Sciences and Engineering (RTMSE), 13-14th March, 2021, organized by LNMIIT Jaipur (event held in online mode)
Prof. M. Vatsa delivered an invited talk on "Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning – Opportunities and Challenges" at the National Defence College, Delhi
Dr. Sunpreet Arora, Staff Research Scientist at Visa Research, to talk about "Privacy-Preserving Digital Identity Platform" on March 1, 2021 at 7:30 pm, IST.
A. Mishra to speak on "Introduction to Neural Networks" at the "International Research Workshop on Advances in Deep Learning and Applications (WADLA 2021)", organized by IIIT Sri City, Chittor, on February 22, 2021.
Prof. Sajal K. Das, Missouri University of Science and Technology, USA, to talk about "From Smart Sensing to Smart Living" in Department Webinar on February 1, 2021 at 7:30 pm, IST.
Dr. Nimrod Talmon, Ben-Gurion University, Be'er Sheva, Israel, to talk about "Participatory Budgeting - Making Budgeting Great Again" in Department Webinar on January 4, 2021. 23 December 2020
Prof. Nalini K. Ratha, an Empire Innovation Professor at University at Buffalo -- SUNY, gave a talk on "Trustworthy AI Systems" in Department webinar on December 21, 2020. 22 December 2020
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya and Dr. Debasis Das were Keynote Speakers in the Management Development Program (MDP) on "Cybersecurity: Contemporary Issues, Challenges and Countermeasures", organized by the School of Management & Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur, on December 12-13, 2020. 15 December 2020
Dr, Ishan Misra, Research Scientist at Facebook AI Research, to talk about "Multi-view invariance and grouping for self-supervised learning" in Department webinar on December 7, 20202 at 5:45 pm. 04 December 2020
Prof. Saket Saurabh, Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, to talk about "Picking Random Vertices" in Department Webinar on October 19, 2020. 17 October 2020
Invited Lecture by Prof. Mayank Vatsa at the prestigious Responsible AI for Social Empowerment (RAISE 2020). Visit: https://raise2020.indiaai.gov.in/speakers 06 October 2020
Dr. Anush Sankaran, Senior Research Scientist, Deeplite, Canada, to talk about "Why do we need to Optimize Deep Learning Models?" in the Departmental Webinar on October 5th, 2020. 05 October 2020
Invited Talk by Debarati Chakraborti on 'Granulated Video Computing', Research Oriented International Webinar Series (ROIWS -2020), at Government Engineering College, Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh, India, 13th September, 2020
Invited Lecture on “Internet of Things(IoT) Security for Smart Cities”, at Rajasthan Technical University, Kota and Poornima College of Engineering, Jaipur, by Debasis Das, September, 2020.
Invited Talk on “Reading text in scene images, connecting it to the world knowledge and beyond”, at Deep Learning for Computer Vision Session, SPCOM’2020 (virtual), IISc Bangalore, by Anand Mishra.
Guest Lecture by Pallavi Jain on “Parameterized Complexity” at Ben-Gurion University, Israel, June 2020.
Invited Talk on “Machine Learning and its Application on Society”, at Mahadevananda Mahavidyalaya and WBSU, West Bengal, India, by Dr. Debasis Das, June 2020.
Invited Talk on “Recommendation Systems based on Driver Stress and Behavior”, at the Institute Mihajlo Pupin, Belgrade, Serbia, by Debasis Das, June 2020.
Invited Talk on “Vehicular Cloud-based Secure and Energy-Efficient Communication and Searching System for Smart Transportation”, at AICTE-ATAL and NIT Surathkal, karnataka, by Debasis Das, May 2020.
Lecture on "GPU Acceleration in General Purpose Computing" 
by Dr. Subhasis Banerjee, IBM Systems Lab
Lecture Series on Machine Learning by Microsoft India ( 17th Feb to 2nd April)

Swapnil Thatte, Paromita Banerjee, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, Bhanu Duggal, and Angshuman Paul submitted an Indian patent on "MFA-U-Net: U-Net with Multi-level Feature Aggregation for Scale-free Medical Image Segmentation," funded by TiH iHub Drishti.
Jayant Vyas (Ph.D. student) selected as research intern (April - October) @ Accenture Labs
Jayant Vyas selected for student travel award for IEEE VTC 2023 Conference
Anand Mishra has been recognized as one of the Outstanding Reviewers at CVPR 2023.
The Department of CSE welcomes its Executive M.Tech AI students for a campus immersive experience from August 1 - 5, 2022.
ACM-W India Grad Cohort 2022 hosted by Department of CSE from July 21-22, 2022.
Cyber-Physical Systems Innovator-Expert - Dr. Aloknath De, and IBM Distinguished Engineer - Dr. Sameep Mehta join us as Adjunct Faculty.
Richa Singh is the Program Chair at ICMI 2022
IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur proudly present their first joint patent on Automatic Speech Generation systems to help the differently-abled to communicate using vocal expressions; work done by Dr. Sumit Kalra (CSE, IITJ) and team.
Work on NextGen Telemedicine by Dr. Sumit Kalra and Team was featured in the national meeting on "Discussion on COVID-19 Awareness in the Rural Population with Regional Coordinating Institutes", organized by Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (National Coordinator, IIT Delhi).
Covid-19 initiatives by CSE @ IIT Jodhpur, highlighted in the July edition (Vol. IV, Issue 6) of Vigyan Prasar.
Prof. S. Sanadhya invited as expert panelist for webinar (organized by IITJ and WhizHack) on "Building Global Career in Cyber Defense" on June 26, 2021.
Prof. S. Sanadhya invited as expert panelist for webinar (organized by IITJ and WhizHack) on "Building Global Career in Cyber Defense" on June 19, 2021.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya invited as panelist for discussions on "How to become a successful Cyber Defense Professional" on May 19, 2021, 5-6pm (IST).
Dr. Angshuman Paul joins as Assistant Professor!
Prof. Richa Singh to serve as Program Co-Chair for CVPR-2022.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya to serve as organizing chair for the 18th IFIP WG 11.9 international conference on digital forensics 2022.
Prof. M. Vatsa invited for Q&A session on "'Skilling and Opportunities in AI' by DST, Rajasthan.
Dr. Pallavi Jain to present at AAMAS 2021
Ms. Pratibha Choudhary will defend her Thesis on March 18, 2021 at 06:00 PM through online mode
Dr. A. Mishra will be presenting a poster on 'Multimodal Machine Learning for Enhanced Image Understanding' under the 'Machine Learning and Big Data Analytics Track', as an invited participant at the 11th Indo German Frontier of Engineering Conference (INDOGFE 2021) - 24-26 Feb 2021.
The AAAI-21 First International Workshop on Meta-Learning for Computer Vision (MeL4CV)" organized by M. Vatsa, R. Singh, N. Ratha, V. Patel, S. Mittal, on February 08, 2021.
Prof. Somitra Sanadhya was invited as panelist on a discussion on "Security Research Bottleneck ... Lab, Program Set-up, Problem Statements, Industry Connects, & Data Sets" in the 'Security, Education, Research and Innovation (SERI 2020) Conference, organized by the Data Security Council of India (DSCI), on December 14, 2020. 16 December 2020
Panel Discussion on "Higher Studies as a Career Strategy" 31 October 2020
Suman Kundu was a Panel Member at the Workshop on Digital Humanities into the Palm of Your Hand in IEEE BigMM. Presented: "Identification of Cyberbully from Multilingual Indian Tweets" Date: Sep 26, 2020
Anil Shukla joins the department as Assistant Professor on 08 May 2017
Manas Khatua joins the department as Assistant Professor on 28 December 2016
Aritra Banik joins the department as Assistant Professor on 07 March 2016
Visit of Anil Bhansali, MD, Microsoft India (R&D)
Ph.D. Thesis Defense
Visit of 6-member Research & Development team from LG Software India Labs, on 30-31, July 2015
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay joins the department as Assistant Professor on 13 July 2015


The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing.

The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences, an Integrated Teacher in Education Program (ITEP) with specialization in Mathematics, and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics, computing and Data and Computational Sciences. The department also offers a Minor program in Data Science for the UG students.

The department faculty are active researchers in different areas, namely, Algebra, Complex Analysis, Topological Dynamics, LowDimensional Chaos, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Dynamics in Neuroscience, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Optimization Techniques, Partial Differential Equations, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Financial Mathematics and Applied Probability. The department has all necessary research infrastructures including High Performance Computing.

Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability.

We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics.

Welcome To The Department of Physics
The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology.

We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our 4 Year BS in Physics with specialization is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a 5 Year BS + M.Tech. dual degree course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz. M.Sc. (2 years), M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our Ph.D. program empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains.

Research Areas
The department has a very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas:

Research Areas of physics department
Research Areas
High Energy Physics and Astrophysics

Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment.

Quantum Physics

Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics & Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology.

Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group

Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics.

Optics and Photonics

Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications.

Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual faculty's home pages. The application can be submitted with this link.

Infrastructure
The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM) besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research & Development of Scientific Instruments (CRDSI).

Collaborations
The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc.


The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of things (IoT), Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS).

At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills.

The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception.



Welcome To The Department of Materials Engineering
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur was established in 2017, and the Department is committed to high-quality education and research in the broad area of Materials Engineering. The Department continuously strives for excellence in teaching and research through innovative pedagogy and curriculum, by undertaking interdisciplinary projects, and through active collaborations with industries, R&D labs, and academia. By enabling the students to think independently and equipping them with relevant skill sets, our goal is to encourage the graduates to innovate and address present-day materials challenges to meet the needs of the country.

At present, the Department offers B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. programs. The Department's teaching and research activities cover four major streams- structural materials, functional materials, computational materials engineering, and process metallurgy. From structural materials to semiconductors, we attempt to understand the processing, composition and structure, properties, and performance of materials for deriving novel, effective, and sustainable alternatives. Currently, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts such as smart materials, additive manufacturing, artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensor materials, etc., as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring Materials Engineering knowledge.
Head of the Department
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is working towards building future generation minds rich in skills and innovation to be the best in the outside world. Faculty Members in the department have expertise in diverse areas of Materials Engineering. They are actively involved in conducting translational research in the fundamental and applied areas of Materials Engineering. The department frequently organizes invited lectures and workshops to share research findings, train students on the state-of-the-art experimental and computational techniques to promote the development of skill sets.

The Department welcomes bright people who aspire to utilize the power of ambitious research and teaching to shape a better future.

Materials Design and Processing
Advanced Structural and Functional Materials
Computational Materials Engineering
Extractive and Process Metallurgy
Materials Testing and Characterization
Head of the Department image


Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development.

The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching. The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT), Cyber Physical Systems (CPS), and Intelligent Communication Systems (ICS).

The Department also runs dual degree (M.Tech. + Ph.D.) programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave & Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems (for working professionals) from July 2022.

The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs (UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs) page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department.

To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas.

Current Technology Tracks
5G-Beyond-Communication	Signal-Processing		Nanoelectronics-Integrated	Smart-Grid	Embedded-Computing	Artificial-Intelligence
Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception.



Welcome To The Department of Chemical Engineering
Translation of molecular information into discovery of new products and processes with Industry 4.0+ 
Vision & Mission of the Department
To become a globally recognized department of chemical engineering through its contribution in emerging and demand-driven areas with multidisciplinary approach.   

The Department of Chemical Engineering offers under-graduate (B.Tech.) and post-graduate (M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D.) programs in chemical engineering. Through the academic programs, the department is making a conscious effort to establish itself as a leading institute in the new genre of chemical engineering education. The program involves traditional courses, emerging areas and specialisations such as process engineering intelligence, molecular engineering and sustainability.

In line with the new education policy, B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) students will have unique opportunity and flexibility for:

Minor in (a)Management (b)Entrepreneurship (c)Data Science
Five year B.Tech.+M.Tech./ MBA
One year Engineering Innovation opportunity


Traditionally, chemical engineering teaching focuses on subjects like material and energy balance, transport phenomena, thermodynamics, mass transfer, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, chemical reaction engineering, numerical analysis, computational systems, biotechnology, petroleum-petrochemicals, polymers and safety engineering. With the advent of the era of Industry 4.0 in chemical companies, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), data analytics, internet of things (IoT), molecular engineering, nano-composites; the discipline is being transformed by the incorporation of new emerging technologies and demand-driven areas.

The department is keen on collaboration with industry and academia worldwide. At present, Chemical Engineering Department is sharing its expertise with the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS), Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Ministry of Defence; International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) etc. Department has signed MoU with the industries for providing consultancy services. Department is also actively involved in Scientific Social Responsibility (SSR) through Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) and other societal initiatives.

Department has research interest in core and emerging areas; and is looking for faculty members in different areas of chemical engineering. Prospective candidates are encouraged to visit our recruitment page and apply.

Welcome to the Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2009 offers a B.Tech. program in Bioengineering, an M.Tech. and M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree programs in Bioscience & Bioengineering. Our programs are uniquely designed to inspire innovations in biotechnology, engineering, and medicine from an understanding of  biological systems.  This capacity building is assuming importance in the present times for providing solutions to societal problems in trans-disciplinary frameworks. A major focus is on neurosciences and neurodegenerative disorders, mechanistic biology, environmental and medical microbiology, computational biology, precision health, and bioprospecting for novel molecules and bio-actives from natural resources of the Thar ecoregion. We also offer a competitive Ph.D. program to inculcate scientific temper, independent thinking, and skillsets for scientific entrepreneurship. We encourage and provide avenues for the participation of bioengineering graduates with diverse engineering disciplines to develop technologies for:

Affordable and Smart Healthcare
Clean Environment
Precision Medicine and Health
Sustainable and Affordable Energy
Faculties at the department with wide-ranging expertise,  conduct fundamental and translational research in focus areas that are contemporary and aligned to major sustainable development goals. We are passionate about research and actively communicate our science through regular outreach programs.

outreach programs





Message from the Head of the Department
Message from the Head of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Assoc. Prof. Neha Jain (Acting Head BSBE)

Email: head_bb@iitj.ac.in, Phone: 0291 280 1201

Bioscience and Bioengineering are pivotal to India's growth. driving innovation and advancing technology in healthcare. Agriculture and environmental sustainability. The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur plays a key role in implementing diverse advanced biological research areas within these fields. with a strong focus on fostering research and development (R&D) and entrepreneurship.

By offering a multidisciplinary platform that integrates cutting-edge research in drug discovery, genomics, and affordable and integrative precision healthcare solutions. Big Data Biology and bioinformatics. In addition. The department actively promotes entrepreneurship by providing incubation support, facilitating industry collaborations, and encouraging the growth of startup ventures in biosciences.

With access to advanced research facilities and guidance from expert faculty members, students can transform their ideas into practical, marketable solutions, benefiting industries such as healthcare, agriculture, and biomanufacturing.

BSBE Department, IIT Jodhpur, emphasizes interdisciplinary research in the near future, which may also align with national initiatives like the BioE3 policy to promote R&D, commercialization, and the establishment of bioeconomy hubs. The curriculum is thoughtfully designed to meet the diverse aspirations of students entering the fields of biosciences and bioengineering. This approach not only strengthens the academic peers ecosystem but also creates employment opportunities and enhances societal well-being.



--- SOURCE: faculty.txt ---

Anand Mishra serves as a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. He leads the Vision, Language, and Learning Group (VL2G) at IIT Jodhpur, which focuses on problems at the intersection of vision and language. Specifically, the group is focusing on video understanding, efficient vision and language models and multilinguality. Anand has made significant contributions to the field through influential resources and systems, including the IIIT-5K and OCR-VQA datasets, as well as IndicPhotoOCR, an open-source OCR system for Indian language text in natural images. His research group has received support through various industry and government of India grants, including Microsoft Academic Partnership Grant (2021 and 2023), MeitY Grant on National Language Translation Mission, a research grant from HealthcareNLP, a Gift Grant from Accenture, and a Start-up Research Grant from SERB, Govt. of India. Anand is an active reviewer for top-tier computer vision, language and AI venues, and his reviewing contributions have been recognized with Outstanding Reviewer Awards at ICCV 2021 and CVPR 2023. He served as Program Co-Chair for ICVGIP 2025 and is currently serving as an Area Chair for CVPR 2026 and ECCV 2026.
Mayank Vatsa is a Professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, a Fellow of IEEE and IAPR, and a member of the National Academy of AI (USA). His research focuses on Artificial Intelligence, with an emphasis on Generative AI, Responsible AI, computer vision, and biometrics. He is a recipient of India's prestigious Swarnajayanti Fellowship and the IEEE Meritorious Service Award (2023). He serves as Co-Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, a journal he led the efforts to establish during his tenure as Vice President of the IEEE Biometrics Council. He has also held senior roles at premier conferences like AAAI, CVPR, ICCV, IJCB, and FG. Dr. Vatsa has contributed in several of India's key technology initiatives, contributing to UIDAI (Aadhaar) standards, DigiYatra, the NITI Aayog 'Responsible AI for All' policy, national biometric standards, and the formation of the Technology Innovation Hub at IIT Jodhpur.
​D​r. Singh is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur. She earned her Ph.D. in Computer Science from West Virginia University, USA. She is a globally recognized leader in artificial intelligence and machine learning, with a focus on pattern recognition, biometrics, medical image analysis, and Responsible AI. Her contributions to the field have been recognized with the highest distinctions, including being named a Fellow of the IEEE, IAPR, and Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE). She is also an ACM Distinguished Member and a member of the National Academy of AI (USA). A prolific researcher, Prof. Singh has authored over 400 publications in top-tier venues, which have garnered more than 16,200 citations (h index: 71). Her research program has attracted external grants exceeding Rs. 56 crores. She holds editorial leadership roles, serving as the Founding Co-Editor-in-Chief of ACM AI Letters and the Associate Editor-in-Chief of the prestigious Pattern Recognition Journal. Prof. Singh's work has demonstrated profound real-world impact. Her face recognition technology was instrumental in the challenging task of identifying victims of the Balasore train accident, while her deepfake detection systems were deployed to ​p​revent the​ spread of misinformation ​i​n India's 2024 general elections. Her contributions have been honored with numerous awards, including the Nasscom AI Gamechangers Award and the Facebook Award for Ethics in AI. She has supervised 14 Ph.D. students to graduation (14 ongoing PhDs) and guided over 200 M.Tech and B.Tech students. She has a strong record of service to the academic community, notably serving as the Program Committee Chair for CVPR 2022, becoming the first researcher from India to hold this position in the conference's 40-year history. She regularly serves in leadership roles for premier conferences such as ICCV, ECCV, AAAI, and major biometrics venues.
Dr. Debasis Das is currently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Associate Faculty at the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE), as well as Coordinator of IoT and Applications (Inter-disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. His research interests include Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs), Blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Quantum Technology. Dr. Das published 170 research papers in top international journals( Like IEEE Transactions, ACM Transactions, etc) and top B/A/A* Conferences. Dr. Das has 23 sponsored projects and 2 consultancy projects to his credit. He has been awarded the Early Career Research (ECR) Award, BRICS Young Scientist Award, Young Researcher Award-2024, DST-NSF Project Award 2025, NSTC Research Project Award 2025 from Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), MoE, NSF, and NSTC, respectively. He has many research collaborations with premier institutions in India and different universities across the globe. He has been engaged in different academic activities inside and outside the Institute. He has supervised 10 Ph.D. students, and 10 are currently pursuing their theses. He has also supervised more than 50 M.E./M.Tech. thesis. He is a senior member of IEEE and VTS and a professional member of ACM.
Dr. Banerjee is curently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of IIT Jodhpur. His research interests are broadly in the areas of high performance computing, big data analytics, accelerated computing, and computer architectures. Previously he was a post-doctoral researcher at the Network Based Computing Laboratory of The Ohio State University where he worked under the mentorship of Prof. Dhabaleswar K. Panda. Before that, he completed my Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad in 2014 where he worked under the guidance of Dr. Kishore Kothapalli. He was a part of the Center for Security, Theory, and Algorithmic Research (CSTAR) laboratory. His PhD research was broadly in High Performance Computing where he worked towards developing novel algorithms and implementations for heterogeneous computing platforms that could utilise multiple multi-core and many-core processors at the same time leading to better performance and higher system efficiency.
Since March 2025, Dr Jain is an assistant professor at the CSE department of IIT Jodhpur. In June 2025, Dr Jain, recevied DST INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship Grant for five years. Before joining academics, he was in industrial research at Hitachi Rail, Berlin for little over two years. There Dr Jain led R&D projects dealing with digitalization in the railway domain, including a patent in Digital Twin. For his PhD at Technical University Berlin, he worked on Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes for various applications. During his PhD, he developed 3D data registration softwares for medical instrument manufacturing companies. His focus areas include 3D Computer Vision, Edge AI, VR/AR Visualization amongst others.
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Jodhpur.
In 2020, I obtained my PhD in Computer Science from the University of Iowa, advised by Prof. Kasturi Varadarajan. Then, during 2020-2023, I was a postdoctoral researcher at University of Bergen, where I was hosted by Prof. Saket Saurabh. 

I am interested in theoretical computer science in general, but in particular this includes design of approximation and parameterized algorithms for clustering and geometric optimization problems.

Gaurav Bhatnagar is a Professor in the Department of Mathematics at Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur since June 2023. He was an Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the same Department from September 2013 onward. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur, Dr. Bhatnagar spent four years as a Post-doctoral Research Associate in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of Windsor, Canada from September 2009 to August 2013. Dr. Bhatnagar received his PhD in interdisciplinary area of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science and an MSc in Applied Mathematics from the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, India, in 2010 and 2005, respectively. He is also the Project Director of TIH iHub Drishti, a Section 8 Not-for-profit Organisation, promoted by and at IIT Jodhpur established under National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) of the Government of India. His research interests lie in the broad area of wavelet and fractional transform theory, with applications in multimedia security, digital watermarking and encryption techniques, hashing protocols, biometrics, image analysis, segmentation and completion. Dr. Bhatnagar is the author of over 80 scholarly publications in peer reviewed technical journals and conference proceedings. He was recently listed under researchers in Artificial Intelligence & Image Processing in the newly released Stanford University listing of the top 2% of researchers globally. He is a member of several professional bodies, including IEEE, ACM, SIAM and AMS. He is associated with several journals as the technical committee member and has been regularly associated with international conferences/workshops in various roles such as Program Chair, Area Chair, Session Chair and TPC Member.
Dr. Kirankumar Hiremath is an Professor of Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur. He is an applied mathematician working in wave-matter interactions, mathematical physics, scientific computations, and applied analysis. His specialization is mathematical optics-photonics and the design of efficient methods to solve real life problems. He did his post-graduation from IIT Bombay and PhD from the University of Twente (The Netherlands). After that, he did his post-doc at  Optoelectronics Center, University of North Carolina at Charlotte (USA), and  Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (Germany). He worked at Zuse Institute Berlin (Germany). Since 2012, he has been with IIT Jodhpur. He is also a member of the Interdisciplinary Research Group on Quantum Information. His mathematical work on bent waveguides, microresonators, and coupled mode theory is very well received.
Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra is currently working as an Associate Professor at IIT Jodhpur. He obtained  his Ph.D. degree in Reliability Theory from IISER Kolkata. After completion of his PhD, he joined as a Visiting Scientist at ISI Kolkata. Then, he moved to South Africa to pursue his postdoctoral research career, and he joined as a Claude Leon Postdoctoral Fellow in the Dept. of Mathematical Statistics at University of Free State, Bloemfontein. Then he started his professional career as an Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Mathematics at IIITDM Kancheepuram, Chennai. After spending one year at IIITDM Kancheepuram,  he moved to IIT Jodhpur where he is currently working in the Dept. of Mathematics.

His current research interest includes Reliability Theory, Applied Probability, Robust Statistical Inference, Sequential Data Analysis and Time Series Analysis.

He has been appointed as an Associate Editor in leading statistical journals, namely, Opsearch, Communications in Statistics-Theory and Methods, Communications in Statistics-Simulations and Computations, and Communications in Statistics- Case Studies and Data Analysis.
I am an Assistant Professor (Grade II) in the Department of Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur. I received my Ph.D. from IIT Bombay in 2024. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur, I was an Institute Postdoctoral Fellow at IIT Bombay, and then a Research Associate at IIT Hyderabad.

My current research interest lies in extremal graph theory and combinatorics. In graph theory, I have worked on list colorings of graphs, particularly on the behavior of the gap between the choice number and chromatic number for graphs embeddable on a fixed surface. In extremal set theory, I have worked on a fractional variant of set systems with restricted intersection sizes. This work also led me to try to compute the ranks of a large class of dense matrices which are conjectured to have "high" rank.

I am also interested in entropy methods in combinatorics, as well as Brualdi–Hoffman-type problems in spectral graph theory.
I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. Before joining IIT Jodhpur, I was a postdoctoral fellow at the  Department of Computer Science and Engineering of the University of Quebec in Outaouais, Canada under the supervision of Prof. Andrzej Pelc. I also worked  as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Ottawa, Canada under the supervision of Prof. Paola Flocchini of University of Ottawa  and Prof. Nicola Santoro of Carleton University, Canada. 

I earned my PhD from the Advanced Computing and Microelectronics Unit of Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. My Ph.D. supervisor was Prof. Krishnendu Mukhopadhyaya.

Research Interests: My primary research interests lie in the areas of distributed systems and algorithms. In particular, I am interested in the following areas:

Distributed algorithms for Swarm Robots and Autonomous Multi-Agent systems.

Internet of Robotic Things (IoRT) and Autonomous Mobile Robotic Sensors.

Distributed Network algorithms.

Security in Distributed Computing
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. I have completed my Ph.D. from IIT Delhi in the year 2018. Prior to this, I mastered in Mathematics and Computing from the Department of Mathematics, IIT Guwahati in 2014.  My Bachelor's degree is from Lady Brabourne College, University of Calcutta in 2012. My research area of specialisation is "Analysis of Partial Differential Equations".
Prof. Ram Prakash is a plasma physicist and currently serving as a Professor in the Department of Physics at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur. He joined IIT jodhpur as an Associate Professor in the year 2019. He earned his Ph.D. in Plasma Physics from the Centre of Plasma Physics–Institute for Plasma Research (CPP-IPR), Guwahati (a DAE, GoI Unit) in the year 2002. He worked on ADITYA Tokamak as Post-Doctoral Fellow at Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar during 2002-2004. Later worked as Faculty at Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra during 2004-2011. During 2006-2007, he also worked at Max-Planck Institute for Plasmaphysik, Garching, Germany on ASDEX Upgrade Tokamak as Guest Scientist under BOYSCAST Fellowship scheme of Govt. of India. Prior to his current assignment, he worked as Senior Scientist and Principal Scientist at CSIR-Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-CEERI), Pilani, and was group leader in the Plasma Devices Lab during 2011-2017. He established CSIR-CEERI's Incubation-cum-Innovation Hub, Jaipur Centre and IIT Jodhpur’s Technology Innovation and Start-up Centre, and was the first Scientist-in-charge and Faculty-in-charge during 2017-2019 and 2019-2021, respectively. He was also the first faculty-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur Technology Park during 2021-2023 and has mentored three start-ups. Further, he has served as Dean of Infrastructure Planning(DoIP) at IIT Jodhpur during Sept 2023 - Aug 2025.


He has been honoured with several prestigious awards including the PSSI Jaidutt Saraswati Sodha Award (2022), SERC Fast Track Young Scientist Award (2003), BOYSCAST Fellowship (2005), and CSIR-CEERI’s Foundation Day Award for Excellence in Research (2018). He is one of the editors of Nature: Scientific Reports Journal, was a Vice-President of the Plasma Science Society of India during 2022–2024, and was also a scientific consultant to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna in the year 2009. His contributions to science communication in Hindi are well-known and he received a Vishesh Vaigyanik Rajbhasha Vishishtha Samman in the year 2012.

Research

Prof. Ram Prakash is currently working on low temperature plasma applications and spearheading the development of a state-of-the-art Cold Plasma Laboratory aimed at delivering innovative, plasma-based solutions in the fields of health, food, energy, and agriculture. His team has made significant research contributions using cold plasmas for clean air, water purity, environmental safety, and efficient energy systems. The unique aspects of his work are related to innovations that have involved design, development, and translation of fundamental research into devices and systems that can be used in the field by common man and industries. He has successfully developed six technologies -Four technologies for commercialization by industries and two technologies for strategic sectors. The work done on novel Cold-plasma Detergent in Environment (CODE) Device for better indoor air quality, Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation Systems to fight COVID-19 pandemic, Mercury-Free-Plasma UV-lamps for efficient water disinfection, VUV-spectrometer-detector system calibration source useful for tokamak machines, Radial Multi-channel High-current Pseudospark Switch useful for high pulse power applications, Sheet-beam Plasma Cathode Electron Gun useful for THz microwave generation are a few of them to mention.
Dr. Yogiraj Sargam is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering at IIT Jodhpur. He works in the research areas of carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS), waste valorization, and nanomaterials within the cement and concrete value chain.

Dr. Sargam earned his Ph.D. (2021) and M.S. (2019) from Iowa State University, USA, under the supervision of Prof. Kejin Wang. His doctoral work on the dispersion and stability of nanomaterials in cementitious systems earned him the Research Excellence Award from the university. His master’s research was focused on the measurement and prediction of mass concrete parameters and thermal conductivity.

After his graduate studies, Dr. Sargam worked at CarbonCure Technologies, Canada (2021–2025), where he held roles of Research Scientist, Director of Research, and Senior Director of Research. During his tenure, he played a key role in advancing the understanding of CO2 mineralization mechanisms and developing CO2 utilization technologies for low-carbon concrete.

Dr. Sargam has published extensively in high-impact journals, including Cement and Concrete Research, Journal of CO₂ Utilization, and Composites Part B, and actively collaborates with renowned researchers worldwide. His detailed research profile is available on Google Scholar.
