Anand Mishra serves as a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. He leads the Vision, Language, and Learning Group (VL2G) at IIT Jodhpur, which focuses on problems at the intersection of vision and language. Specifically, the group is focusing on video understanding, efficient vision and language models and multilinguality. Anand has made significant contributions to the field through influential resources and systems, including the IIIT-5K and OCR-VQA datasets, as well as IndicPhotoOCR, an open-source OCR system for Indian language text in natural images. His research group has received support through various industry and government of India grants, including Microsoft Academic Partnership Grant (2021 and 2023), MeitY Grant on National Language Translation Mission, a research grant from HealthcareNLP, a Gift Grant from Accenture, and a Start-up Research Grant from SERB, Govt. of India. Anand is an active reviewer for top-tier computer vision, language and AI venues, and his reviewing contributions have been recognized with Outstanding Reviewer Awards at ICCV 2021 and CVPR 2023. He served as Program Co-Chair for ICVGIP 2025 and is currently serving as an Area Chair for CVPR 2026 and ECCV 2026.
Mayank Vatsa is a Professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, a Fellow of IEEE and IAPR, and a member of the National Academy of AI (USA). His research focuses on Artificial Intelligence, with an emphasis on Generative AI, Responsible AI, computer vision, and biometrics. He is a recipient of India's prestigious Swarnajayanti Fellowship and the IEEE Meritorious Service Award (2023). He serves as Co-Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, a journal he led the efforts to establish during his tenure as Vice President of the IEEE Biometrics Council. He has also held senior roles at premier conferences like AAAI, CVPR, ICCV, IJCB, and FG. Dr. Vatsa has contributed in several of India's key technology initiatives, contributing to UIDAI (Aadhaar) standards, DigiYatra, the NITI Aayog 'Responsible AI for All' policy, national biometric standards, and the formation of the Technology Innovation Hub at IIT Jodhpur.
​D​r. Singh is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur. She earned her Ph.D. in Computer Science from West Virginia University, USA. She is a globally recognized leader in artificial intelligence and machine learning, with a focus on pattern recognition, biometrics, medical image analysis, and Responsible AI. Her contributions to the field have been recognized with the highest distinctions, including being named a Fellow of the IEEE, IAPR, and Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE). She is also an ACM Distinguished Member and a member of the National Academy of AI (USA). A prolific researcher, Prof. Singh has authored over 400 publications in top-tier venues, which have garnered more than 16,200 citations (h index: 71). Her research program has attracted external grants exceeding Rs. 56 crores. She holds editorial leadership roles, serving as the Founding Co-Editor-in-Chief of ACM AI Letters and the Associate Editor-in-Chief of the prestigious Pattern Recognition Journal. Prof. Singh's work has demonstrated profound real-world impact. Her face recognition technology was instrumental in the challenging task of identifying victims of the Balasore train accident, while her deepfake detection systems were deployed to ​p​revent the​ spread of misinformation ​i​n India's 2024 general elections. Her contributions have been honored with numerous awards, including the Nasscom AI Gamechangers Award and the Facebook Award for Ethics in AI. She has supervised 14 Ph.D. students to graduation (14 ongoing PhDs) and guided over 200 M.Tech and B.Tech students. She has a strong record of service to the academic community, notably serving as the Program Committee Chair for CVPR 2022, becoming the first researcher from India to hold this position in the conference's 40-year history. She regularly serves in leadership roles for premier conferences such as ICCV, ECCV, AAAI, and major biometrics venues.
Dr. Debasis Das is currently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Associate Faculty at the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE), as well as Coordinator of IoT and Applications (Inter-disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. His research interests include Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs), Blockchain, the Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Quantum Technology. Dr. Das published 170 research papers in top international journals( Like IEEE Transactions, ACM Transactions, etc) and top B/A/A* Conferences. Dr. Das has 23 sponsored projects and 2 consultancy projects to his credit. He has been awarded the Early Career Research (ECR) Award, BRICS Young Scientist Award, Young Researcher Award-2024, DST-NSF Project Award 2025, NSTC Research Project Award 2025 from Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), MoE, NSF, and NSTC, respectively. He has many research collaborations with premier institutions in India and different universities across the globe. He has been engaged in different academic activities inside and outside the Institute. He has supervised 10 Ph.D. students, and 10 are currently pursuing their theses. He has also supervised more than 50 M.E./M.Tech. thesis. He is a senior member of IEEE and VTS and a professional member of ACM.
Dr. Banerjee is curently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of IIT Jodhpur. His research interests are broadly in the areas of high performance computing, big data analytics, accelerated computing, and computer architectures. Previously he was a post-doctoral researcher at the Network Based Computing Laboratory of The Ohio State University where he worked under the mentorship of Prof. Dhabaleswar K. Panda. Before that, he completed my Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad in 2014 where he worked under the guidance of Dr. Kishore Kothapalli. He was a part of the Center for Security, Theory, and Algorithmic Research (CSTAR) laboratory. His PhD research was broadly in High Performance Computing where he worked towards developing novel algorithms and implementations for heterogeneous computing platforms that could utilise multiple multi-core and many-core processors at the same time leading to better performance and higher system efficiency.
Since March 2025, Dr Jain is an assistant professor at the CSE department of IIT Jodhpur. In June 2025, Dr Jain, recevied DST INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship Grant for five years. Before joining academics, he was in industrial research at Hitachi Rail, Berlin for little over two years. There Dr Jain led R&D projects dealing with digitalization in the railway domain, including a patent in Digital Twin. For his PhD at Technical University Berlin, he worked on Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes for various applications. During his PhD, he developed 3D data registration softwares for medical instrument manufacturing companies. His focus areas include 3D Computer Vision, Edge AI, VR/AR Visualization amongst others.
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Jodhpur.
In 2020, I obtained my PhD in Computer Science from the University of Iowa, advised by Prof. Kasturi Varadarajan. Then, during 2020-2023, I was a postdoctoral researcher at University of Bergen, where I was hosted by Prof. Saket Saurabh. 

I am interested in theoretical computer science in general, but in particular this includes design of approximation and parameterized algorithms for clustering and geometric optimization problems.

Gaurav Bhatnagar is a Professor in the Department of Mathematics at Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur since June 2023. He was an Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the same Department from September 2013 onward. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur, Dr. Bhatnagar spent four years as a Post-doctoral Research Associate in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of Windsor, Canada from September 2009 to August 2013. Dr. Bhatnagar received his PhD in interdisciplinary area of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science and an MSc in Applied Mathematics from the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, India, in 2010 and 2005, respectively. He is also the Project Director of TIH iHub Drishti, a Section 8 Not-for-profit Organisation, promoted by and at IIT Jodhpur established under National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) of the Government of India. His research interests lie in the broad area of wavelet and fractional transform theory, with applications in multimedia security, digital watermarking and encryption techniques, hashing protocols, biometrics, image analysis, segmentation and completion. Dr. Bhatnagar is the author of over 80 scholarly publications in peer reviewed technical journals and conference proceedings. He was recently listed under researchers in Artificial Intelligence & Image Processing in the newly released Stanford University listing of the top 2% of researchers globally. He is a member of several professional bodies, including IEEE, ACM, SIAM and AMS. He is associated with several journals as the technical committee member and has been regularly associated with international conferences/workshops in various roles such as Program Chair, Area Chair, Session Chair and TPC Member.
Dr. Kirankumar Hiremath is an Professor of Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur. He is an applied mathematician working in wave-matter interactions, mathematical physics, scientific computations, and applied analysis. His specialization is mathematical optics-photonics and the design of efficient methods to solve real life problems. He did his post-graduation from IIT Bombay and PhD from the University of Twente (The Netherlands). After that, he did his post-doc at  Optoelectronics Center, University of North Carolina at Charlotte (USA), and  Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (Germany). He worked at Zuse Institute Berlin (Germany). Since 2012, he has been with IIT Jodhpur. He is also a member of the Interdisciplinary Research Group on Quantum Information. His mathematical work on bent waveguides, microresonators, and coupled mode theory is very well received.
Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra is currently working as an Associate Professor at IIT Jodhpur. He obtained  his Ph.D. degree in Reliability Theory from IISER Kolkata. After completion of his PhD, he joined as a Visiting Scientist at ISI Kolkata. Then, he moved to South Africa to pursue his postdoctoral research career, and he joined as a Claude Leon Postdoctoral Fellow in the Dept. of Mathematical Statistics at University of Free State, Bloemfontein. Then he started his professional career as an Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Mathematics at IIITDM Kancheepuram, Chennai. After spending one year at IIITDM Kancheepuram,  he moved to IIT Jodhpur where he is currently working in the Dept. of Mathematics.

His current research interest includes Reliability Theory, Applied Probability, Robust Statistical Inference, Sequential Data Analysis and Time Series Analysis.

He has been appointed as an Associate Editor in leading statistical journals, namely, Opsearch, Communications in Statistics-Theory and Methods, Communications in Statistics-Simulations and Computations, and Communications in Statistics- Case Studies and Data Analysis.
I am an Assistant Professor (Grade II) in the Department of Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur. I received my Ph.D. from IIT Bombay in 2024. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur, I was an Institute Postdoctoral Fellow at IIT Bombay, and then a Research Associate at IIT Hyderabad.

My current research interest lies in extremal graph theory and combinatorics. In graph theory, I have worked on list colorings of graphs, particularly on the behavior of the gap between the choice number and chromatic number for graphs embeddable on a fixed surface. In extremal set theory, I have worked on a fractional variant of set systems with restricted intersection sizes. This work also led me to try to compute the ranks of a large class of dense matrices which are conjectured to have "high" rank.

I am also interested in entropy methods in combinatorics, as well as Brualdi–Hoffman-type problems in spectral graph theory.
I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. Before joining IIT Jodhpur, I was a postdoctoral fellow at the  Department of Computer Science and Engineering of the University of Quebec in Outaouais, Canada under the supervision of Prof. Andrzej Pelc. I also worked  as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Ottawa, Canada under the supervision of Prof. Paola Flocchini of University of Ottawa  and Prof. Nicola Santoro of Carleton University, Canada. 

I earned my PhD from the Advanced Computing and Microelectronics Unit of Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. My Ph.D. supervisor was Prof. Krishnendu Mukhopadhyaya.

Research Interests: My primary research interests lie in the areas of distributed systems and algorithms. In particular, I am interested in the following areas:

Distributed algorithms for Swarm Robots and Autonomous Multi-Agent systems.

Internet of Robotic Things (IoRT) and Autonomous Mobile Robotic Sensors.

Distributed Network algorithms.

Security in Distributed Computing
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. I have completed my Ph.D. from IIT Delhi in the year 2018. Prior to this, I mastered in Mathematics and Computing from the Department of Mathematics, IIT Guwahati in 2014.  My Bachelor's degree is from Lady Brabourne College, University of Calcutta in 2012. My research area of specialisation is "Analysis of Partial Differential Equations".
Prof. Ram Prakash is a plasma physicist and currently serving as a Professor in the Department of Physics at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur. He joined IIT jodhpur as an Associate Professor in the year 2019. He earned his Ph.D. in Plasma Physics from the Centre of Plasma Physics–Institute for Plasma Research (CPP-IPR), Guwahati (a DAE, GoI Unit) in the year 2002. He worked on ADITYA Tokamak as Post-Doctoral Fellow at Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar during 2002-2004. Later worked as Faculty at Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra during 2004-2011. During 2006-2007, he also worked at Max-Planck Institute for Plasmaphysik, Garching, Germany on ASDEX Upgrade Tokamak as Guest Scientist under BOYSCAST Fellowship scheme of Govt. of India. Prior to his current assignment, he worked as Senior Scientist and Principal Scientist at CSIR-Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-CEERI), Pilani, and was group leader in the Plasma Devices Lab during 2011-2017. He established CSIR-CEERI's Incubation-cum-Innovation Hub, Jaipur Centre and IIT Jodhpur’s Technology Innovation and Start-up Centre, and was the first Scientist-in-charge and Faculty-in-charge during 2017-2019 and 2019-2021, respectively. He was also the first faculty-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur Technology Park during 2021-2023 and has mentored three start-ups. Further, he has served as Dean of Infrastructure Planning(DoIP) at IIT Jodhpur during Sept 2023 - Aug 2025.


He has been honoured with several prestigious awards including the PSSI Jaidutt Saraswati Sodha Award (2022), SERC Fast Track Young Scientist Award (2003), BOYSCAST Fellowship (2005), and CSIR-CEERI’s Foundation Day Award for Excellence in Research (2018). He is one of the editors of Nature: Scientific Reports Journal, was a Vice-President of the Plasma Science Society of India during 2022–2024, and was also a scientific consultant to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna in the year 2009. His contributions to science communication in Hindi are well-known and he received a Vishesh Vaigyanik Rajbhasha Vishishtha Samman in the year 2012.

Research

Prof. Ram Prakash is currently working on low temperature plasma applications and spearheading the development of a state-of-the-art Cold Plasma Laboratory aimed at delivering innovative, plasma-based solutions in the fields of health, food, energy, and agriculture. His team has made significant research contributions using cold plasmas for clean air, water purity, environmental safety, and efficient energy systems. The unique aspects of his work are related to innovations that have involved design, development, and translation of fundamental research into devices and systems that can be used in the field by common man and industries. He has successfully developed six technologies -Four technologies for commercialization by industries and two technologies for strategic sectors. The work done on novel Cold-plasma Detergent in Environment (CODE) Device for better indoor air quality, Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation Systems to fight COVID-19 pandemic, Mercury-Free-Plasma UV-lamps for efficient water disinfection, VUV-spectrometer-detector system calibration source useful for tokamak machines, Radial Multi-channel High-current Pseudospark Switch useful for high pulse power applications, Sheet-beam Plasma Cathode Electron Gun useful for THz microwave generation are a few of them to mention.
Dr. Yogiraj Sargam is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering at IIT Jodhpur. He works in the research areas of carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS), waste valorization, and nanomaterials within the cement and concrete value chain.

Dr. Sargam earned his Ph.D. (2021) and M.S. (2019) from Iowa State University, USA, under the supervision of Prof. Kejin Wang. His doctoral work on the dispersion and stability of nanomaterials in cementitious systems earned him the Research Excellence Award from the university. His master’s research was focused on the measurement and prediction of mass concrete parameters and thermal conductivity.

After his graduate studies, Dr. Sargam worked at CarbonCure Technologies, Canada (2021–2025), where he held roles of Research Scientist, Director of Research, and Senior Director of Research. During his tenure, he played a key role in advancing the understanding of CO2 mineralization mechanisms and developing CO2 utilization technologies for low-carbon concrete.

Dr. Sargam has published extensively in high-impact journals, including Cement and Concrete Research, Journal of CO₂ Utilization, and Composites Part B, and actively collaborates with renowned researchers worldwide. His detailed research profile is available on Google Scholar.
